Restoring a DB Cluster to a Specified Time
You can restore a DB cluster to a specific point in time, creating a new DB cluster. When you restore a DB cluster to a point in time, the default DB security group is applied to the new DB cluster. If you need custom DB security groups applied to your DB cluster, you must apply them explicitly using the AWS Management Console, the AWS CLI modify-db-cluster command, or the Amazon RDS API ModifyDBCluster operation after the DB instance is available.
Note
For more information about backing up and restoring an Aurora DB cluster, see Overview of Backing Up and Restoring an Aurora DB Cluster. For Aurora MySQL, you can restore a provisioned DB cluster to an Aurora Serverless DB cluster. For more information, see Restoring an Aurora Serverless DB Cluster.
You can restore a DB cluster to a point in time using the AWS Management Console, the AWS CLI, or the RDS API.
Console
To restore a DB cluster to a specified time


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon RDS console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/.


In the navigation pane, choose Databases.


Choose the DB cluster that you want to restore.


For Actions, choose Restore to point in time.


The Launch DB Instance window appears.

Choose Latest restorable time to restore to the latest possible time, or choose Custom to choose a time.

If you chose Custom, enter the date and time that you want to restore the cluster to.
Note
Times are shown in your local time zone, which is indicated by an offset from Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). For example, UTC-5 is Eastern Standard Time/Central Daylight Time.


For DB instance identifier, enter the name of the target restored DB instance.


Choose other options as needed.


Choose Launch DB Instance.


AWS CLI
To restore a DB cluster to a specified time, use the AWS CLI command  restore-db-cluster-to-point-in-time to create a new DB cluster.
Example
For Linux, macOS, or Unix:  
1. aws rds restore-db-cluster-to-point-in-time \
2.     --source-db-cluster-identifier mysourcedbcluster \
3.     --db-cluster-identifier mytargetdbcluster \
4.     --restore-to-time 2017-10-14T23:45:00.000Z
For Windows:  
1. aws rds restore-db-cluster-to-point-in-time ^
2.     --source-db-cluster-identifier mysourcedbcluster ^
3.     --db-cluster-identifier mytargetdbcluster ^
4.     --restore-to-time 2017-10-14T23:45:00.000Z
RDS API
To restore a DB cluster to a specified time, call the Amazon RDS API https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/APIReference/API_RestoreDBClusterToPointInTime.html operation with the following parameters:
 SourceDBClusterIdentifier
 DBClusterIdentifier
 RestoreToTime