Site-to-Site VPN single and multiple connection examples
The following diagrams illustrate single and multiple Site-to-Site VPN connections. 
Single Site-to-Site VPN connection
The VPC has an attached virtual private gateway, and your on-premises (remote) network includes a customer gateway device, which you must configure to enable the Site-to-Site VPN connection. You set up the routing so that any traffic from the VPC bound for your network is routed to the virtual private gateway.

For steps to set up this scenario, see Getting started.
Single Site-to-Site VPN connection with a transit gateway
The VPC has an attached transit gateway, and your on-premises (remote) network includes a customer gateway device, which you must configure to enable the Site-to-Site VPN connection. You set up the routing so that any traffic from the VPC bound for your network is routed to the transit gateway.

For steps to set up this scenario, see Getting started.
Multiple Site-to-Site VPN connections
The VPC has an attached virtual private gateway, and you have multiple Site-to-Site VPN connections to multiple on-premises locations. You set up the routing so that any traffic from the VPC bound for your networks is routed to the virtual private gateway.
You can also use this scenario to create Site-to-Site VPN connections to multiple geographic locations and provide secure communication between sites. For more information, see Providing secure communication between sites using VPN CloudHub.

When you create multiple Site-to-Site VPN connections to a single VPC, you can configure a second customer gateway to create a redundant connection to the same external location. For more information, see Using redundant Site-to-Site VPN connections to provide failover.
Multiple Site-to-Site VPN connections with a transit gateway
The VPC has an attached transit gateway, and you have multiple Site-to-Site VPN connections to multiple on-premises locations. You set up the routing so that any traffic from the VPC bound for your networks is routed to the transit gateway.
You can also use this scenario to create Site-to-Site VPN connections to multiple geographic locations and provide secure communication between sites.

When you create multiple Site-to-Site VPN connections to a single VPC, you can configure a second customer gateway to create a redundant connection to the same external location. 