Getting started
Use the following procedures to manually set up the AWS Site-to-Site VPN connection. You can create a Site-to-Site VPN connection with either a virtual private gateway or a transit gateway as the target gateway. 
To set up a Site-to-Site VPN connection, complete the following steps:
 Prerequisites
 Step 1: Create a customer gateway
 Step 2: Create a target gateway
 Step 3: Configure routing
 Step 4: Update your security group 
 Step 5: Create a Site-to-Site VPN connection
 Step 6: Download the configuration file
 Step 7: Configure the customer gateway device
These procedures assume that you have a VPC with one or more subnets.
For steps to create a Site-to-Site VPN connection on a transit gateway, see Creating a transit gateway VPN attachment.
Prerequisites
You need the following information to set up and configure the components of a Site-to-Site VPN connection.



Item
Information




Customer gateway device
The physical or software device on your side of the VPN connection. You need the vendor (for example, Cisco), platform (for example, ISR Series Routers), and software version (for example, IOS 12.4).


Customer gateway
To create the customer gateway resource in AWS, you need the following information:[See the AWS documentation website for more details]For more information, see Customer gateway options for your Site-to-Site VPN connection.


(Optional) The ASN for the AWS side of the BGP session
You specify this when you create a virtual private gateway or transit gateway. If you do not specify a value, the default ASN applies. For more information, see Virtual private gateway.


VPN connection
To create the VPN connection, you need the following information:[See the AWS documentation website for more details]



Create a customer gateway
A customer gateway provides information to AWS about your customer gateway device or software application. For more information, see Customer gateway.
If you plan to use a private certificate to authenticate your VPN, create a private certificate from a subordinate CA using AWS Certificate Manager Private Certificate Authority. For information about creating a private certificate, see Creating and managing a private CA in the AWS Certificate Manager Private Certificate Authority User Guide.
Note
You must specify either an IP address, or the Amazon Resource Name of the private certificate.
To create a customer gateway using the console


Open the Amazon VPC console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/.


In the navigation pane, choose Customer Gateways, and then Create Customer Gateway.


Complete the following and then choose Create Customer Gateway:
    (Optional) For Name, enter a name for your customer gateway. Doing so creates a tag with a key of Name and the value that you specify.
    For Routing, select the routing type.
    For dynamic routing, for BGP ASN, enter the Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Autonomous System Number (ASN).
    (Optional) For IP Address, enter the static, internet-routable IP address for your customer gateway device. If your customer gateway is behind a NAT device that's enabled for NAT-T, use the public IP address of the NAT device.
    (Optional) If you want to use a private certificate, for Certificate ARN, choose the Amazon Resource Name of the private certificate.


To create a customer gateway using the command line or API
 CreateCustomerGateway (Amazon EC2 Query API)
 create-customer-gateway (AWS CLI)
 New-EC2CustomerGateway (AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell)
Create a target gateway
To establish a VPN connection between your VPC and your on-premises network, you must create a target gateway on the AWS side of the connection. The target gateway can be a virtual private gateway or a transit gateway. 
Create a virtual private gateway
When you create a virtual private gateway, you can optionally specify the private Autonomous System Number (ASN) for the Amazon side of the gateway. This ASN must be different from the BGP ASN that you specified for the customer gateway.
After you create a virtual private gateway, you must attach it to your VPC.
To create a virtual private gateway and attach it to your VPC


In the navigation pane, choose Virtual Private Gateways, Create Virtual Private Gateway.


(Optional) Enter a name for your virtual private gateway. Doing so creates a tag with a key of Name and the value that you specify.


For ASN, leave the default selection to use the default Amazon ASN. Otherwise, choose Custom ASN and enter a value. For a 16-bit ASN, the value must be in the 64512 to 65534 range. For a 32-bit ASN, the value must be in the 4200000000 to 4294967294 range. 


Choose Create Virtual Private Gateway.


Select the virtual private gateway that you created, and then choose Actions, Attach to VPC.


Select your VPC from the list and choose Yes, Attach.


To create a virtual private gateway using the command line or API
 CreateVpnGateway (Amazon EC2 Query API)
 create-vpn-gateway (AWS CLI)
 New-EC2VpnGateway (AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell)
To attach a virtual private gateway to a VPC using the command line or API
 AttachVpnGateway (Amazon EC2 Query API)
 attach-vpn-gateway (AWS CLI)
 Add-EC2VpnGateway (AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell)
Create a transit gateway
For more information about creating a transit gateway, see Transit gateways in Amazon VPC Transit Gateways.
Configure routing
To enable instances in your VPC to reach your customer gateway, you must configure your route table to include the routes used by your Site-to-Site VPN connection and point them to your virtual private gateway or transit gateway.
(Virtual private gateway) Enable route propagation in your route table
You can enable route propagation for your route table to automatically propagate Site-to-Site VPN routes.
For static routing, the static IP prefixes that you specify for your VPN configuration are propagated to the route table when the status of the Site-to-Site VPN connection is UP. Similarly, for dynamic routing, the BGP-advertised routes from your customer gateway are propagated to the route table when the status of the Site-to-Site VPN connection is UP.
Note
If your connection is interrupted but the VPN connection remains UP, any propagated routes that are in your route table are not automatically removed. Keep this in mind if, for example, you want traffic to fail over to a static route. In that case, you might have to disable route propagation to remove the propagated routes.
To enable route propagation using the console


In the navigation pane, choose Route Tables, and then select the route table that's associated with the subnet. By default, this is the main route table for the VPC.


On the Route Propagation tab in the details pane, choose Edit, select the virtual private gateway that you created in the previous procedure, and then choose Save.


Note
For static routing, if you do not enable route propagation, you must manually enter the static routes used by your Site-to-Site VPN connection. To do this, select your route table, choose Routes, Edit. For Destination, add the static route used by your Site-to-Site VPN connection. For Target, select the virtual private gateway ID, and choose Save.
To disable route propagation using the console


In the navigation pane, choose Route Tables, and then select the route table that's associated with the subnet.


Choose Route Propagation, Edit. Clear the Propagate check box for the virtual private gateway, and choose Save.


To enable route propagation using the command line or API
 EnableVgwRoutePropagation (Amazon EC2 Query API)
 enable-vgw-route-propagation (AWS CLI)
 Enable-EC2VgwRoutePropagation (AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell)
To disable route propagation using the command line or API
 DisableVgwRoutePropagation (Amazon EC2 Query API)
 disable-vgw-route-propagation (AWS CLI)
 Disable-EC2VgwRoutePropagation (AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell)
(Transit gateway) Add a route to your route table
If you enabled route table propagation for your transit gateway, the routes for the VPN attachment are propagated to the transit gateway route table. For more information, see Routing in Amazon VPC Transit Gateways.
If you attach a VPC to your transit gateway and you want to enable resources in the VPC to reach your customer gateway, you must add a route to your subnet route table to point to the transit gateway.
To add a route to a VPC route table


On the navigation pane, choose Route Tables.


Choose the route table that is associated with your VPC.


Choose the Routes tab, then choose Edit routes.


Choose Add route.


In the Destination column, enter the destination IP address range. For Target, choose the transit gateway.


Choose Save routes, and then choose Close.


Update your security group
To allow access to instances in your VPC from your network, you must update your security group rules to enable inbound SSH, RDP, and ICMP access.
To add rules to your security group to enable inbound SSH, RDP and ICMP access


In the navigation pane, choose Security Groups, and then select the default security group for the VPC.


On the Inbound tab in the details pane, add rules that allow inbound SSH, RDP, and ICMP access from your network, and then choose Save. For more information about adding inbound rules, see Adding, removing, and updating rules in the Amazon VPC User Guide.


For more information about working with security groups using the AWS CLI, see Security groups for your VPC in the Amazon VPC User Guide.
Create a Site-to-Site VPN connection
Create the Site-to-Site VPN connection using the customer gateway and the virtual private gateway or transit gateway that you created earlier.
To create a Site-to-Site VPN connection


In the navigation pane, choose Site-to-Site VPN Connections, Create VPN Connection.


(Optional) For Name tag, enter a name for your Site-to-Site VPN connection. Doing so creates a tag with a key of Name and the value that you specify.


For Target Gateway Type, choose either Virtual Private Gateway or Transit Gateway. Then, choose the virtual private gateway or transit gateway that you created earlier.


For Customer Gateway ID, select the customer gateway that you created earlier.


Select one of the routing options based on whether your customer gateway device supports Border Gateway Protocol (BGP):
    If your customer gateway device supports BGP, choose Dynamic (requires BGP).
    If your customer gateway device does not support BGP, choose Static. For Static IP Prefixes, specify each IP prefix for the private network of your Site-to-Site VPN connection.


(Optional) For Tunnel Inside IP Version, specify whether the VPN tunnels support IPv4 or IPv6 traffic. IPv6 traffic is only supported for VPN connections on a transit gateway.


(Optional) For Local IPv4 Network CIDR, specify the IPv4 CIDR range on the customer gateway (on-premises) side that is allowed to communicate over the VPN tunnels. The default is 0.0.0.0/0.


For Remote IPv4 Network CIDR, specify the IPv4 CIDR range on the AWS side that is allowed to communicate over the VPN tunnels. The default is 0.0.0.0/0.
If you specified IPv6 for Tunnel Inside IP Version, then specify the IPv6 CIDR ranges on the customer gateway side and AWS side that are allowed to communicate over the VPN tunnels. The default for both ranges is ::/0.

(Optional) For Tunnel Options, you can specify the following information for each tunnel:
    A size /30 IPv4 CIDR block from the 169.254.0.0/16 range for the inside tunnel IPv4 addresses.
    If you specified IPv6 for Tunnel Inside IP Version, a /126 IPv6 CIDR block from the fd00::/8 range for the inside tunnel IPv6 addresses.
    The IKE pre-shared key (PSK). The following versions are supported: IKEv1 or IKEv2.
    Advanced tunnel information, which includes the following:
Encryption algorithms for phases 1 and 2 of the IKE negotiations
Integrity algorithms for phases 1 and 2 of the IKE negotiations
Diffie-Hellman groups for phases 1 and 2 of the IKE negotiations
IKE version
Phase 1 and 2 lifetimes
Rekey margin time
Rekey fuzz
Replay window size
Dead peer detection interval
Dead peer detection timeout action
Startup action



For more information about these options, see Tunnel options for your Site-to-Site VPN connection.

Choose Create VPN Connection. It might take a few minutes to create the Site-to-Site VPN connection.

To create a Site-to-Site VPN connection using the command line or API
 CreateVpnConnection (Amazon EC2 Query API)
 create-vpn-connection (AWS CLI)
 New-EC2VpnConnection (AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell)
Download the configuration file
After you create the Site-to-Site VPN connection, download the configuration information and use it to configure the customer gateway device or software application.
Important
The configuration file is an example only and might not match your intended VPN connection settings. For example, it specifies the minimum requirements of IKE version 1, AES128, SHA1, and DH group 2 in most AWS Regions, and IKE version 1, AES128, SHA2, and DH group 14 in the AWS GovCloud Regions. It also specifies pre-shared keys for authentication. You must modify the example configuration file to take advantage of IKE version 2, additional security algorithms and DH groups, and private certificates. 
If you specified custom tunnel options when creating or modifying your Site-to-Site VPN connection, modify the example configuration file to match the custom settings for your tunnels.
The file also contains the value for the outside IP address for the virtual private gateway. This value is static unless you recreate the VPN connection in AWS.
To download the configuration file


Open the Amazon VPC console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/.


In the navigation pane, choose Site-to-Site VPN Connections.


Select your VPN connection and choose Download Configuration.


Select the vendor, platform, and software that corresponds to your customer gateway device or software. If your device is not listed, choose Generic. Choose Download.


Configure the customer gateway device
Use the configuration file to configure your customer gateway device. The customer gateway device is the physical or software appliance on your side of the Site-to-Site VPN connection. For more information, see Your customer gateway device.