Creating a database in Amazon Lightsail
Last updated: January 3, 2020 
Create a managed database in Amazon Lightsail in minutes. You can choose between the latest major versions of MySQL or PostgreSQL, and configure your database with a standard or high availability plan.
Note
For more information about managed databases in Lightsail, see Choosing an Amazon Lightsail database.
To create a database


Sign in to the Lightsail console.


On the Lightsail home page, choose the Databases tab.


Choose Create database.


Choose the AWS Region and Availability Zone for your database.


Choose Change AWS Region and Availability Zone, then choose a Region.


Choose Change your Availability Zone, then choose an Availability Zone.


Choose your database type. Under one of the database engine options available, choose the drop-down menu, and then choose one of the latest major database versions supported by Lightsail.



If necessary, choose one of these options:
    Specify login credentials — Specify your own database user name and password. Otherwise, Lightsail specifies the user name, and creates a strong password for you. 

To specify your own user name, choose Specify login credentials, and enter your user name into the text box.
Important
The user name can't be a word reserved by the selected database engine. Additionally, the master user name cannot be changed after the database is created. To learn more about reserved words, refer to the MySQL 5.6, MySQL 5.7, or MySQL 8.0 documentation. For PostgreSQL, refer to the PostgreSQL 9.6, PostgreSQL 10, or PostgreSQL 11 documentation.
To specify your own password, clear the Create a strong password for me check box, and enter your password into the text box. 
Specify the master database name — Specify your own master database name, or Lightsail specifies the name for you. To specify your own master database name, choose Specify the master database name, and enter a name into the text box.



Choose a high availability or a standard database plan, and choose a database bundle.


A database created with a high availability plan has a primary database and a secondary standby database in another Availability Zone for failover support. For more information, see High availability databases in Amazon Lightsail. Differently priced database bundle options are available, each with different levels of memory, processing, storage space, and transfer rates.

Enter a name for your database.

Resource names:
    Must be unique within each AWS Region in your Lightsail account.
    Must contain 2 to 255 characters.
    Must start and end with an alphanumeric character or number.
    Can include alphanumeric characters, numbers, periods, dashes, and underscores.


Choose one of the following options to add tags to your database:
    Add key-only tags or Edit key-only tags (if tags have already been added). Enter your new tag into the tag key text box, and press Enter. Choose Save when you’re done entering your tags to add them, or choose Cancel to not add them.

    Create a key-value tag, then enter a key into the Key text box, and a value into the Value text box. Choose Save when you’re done entering your tags, or choose Cancel to not add them.
Key-value tags can only be added one at a time before saving. To add more than one key-value tag, repeat the previous steps.

Note
For more information about key-only and key-value tags, see Tags in Amazon Lightsail.


Choose Create database.


Within minutes, your Lightsail database is ready. You can begin configuring it for data import, or connect to it by using a database client.
Next steps
Here are a few guides to help you manage your new database in Lightsail after it’s up and running:
 Configuring the data import mode for your database in Amazon Lightsail
 Configuring the public mode for your database in Amazon Lightsail
 Managing your database password in Amazon Lightsail
 Connecting to your MySQL database in Amazon Lightsail
 Connecting to your PostgreSQL database in Amazon Lightsail
 Importing data into your MySQL database in Amazon Lightsail
 Importing data into your PostgreSQL database in Amazon Lightsail
 Creating a snapshot of your database in Amazon Lightsail