Creating Amazon EBS volumes from exported Amazon Lightsail disk snapshots
Last updated: November 28, 2018 
After a Lightsail block storage disk snapshot is exported and available in Amazon EC2 (as an EBS snapshot), you can create an EBS volume from the snapshot using the Amazon EC2 console.
Note
To create EC2 instances from exported instance snapshots, see Creating Amazon EC2 instances from exported snapshots in Lightsail.
You can also create new EBS volumes using the Amazon EC2 API, AWS CLI, or SDKs. For more information, see Launching an Instance Using the Launch Instance Wizard or Restoring an Amazon EBS Volume from a Snapshot in the Amazon EC2 documentation.
Important
We recommend getting familiar with the Lightsail export process before completing the steps in this guide. For more information, see Exporting Amazon Lightsail snapshots.
Prerequisites
Export a Lightsail block storage disk snapshot to Amazon EC2. For more information, see Exporting Amazon Lightsail snapshots to Amazon EC2.
Create an EBS volume from an exported Lightsail block storage disk snapshot
Use the Amazon EC2 console to create a new EBS volume from an exported Lightsail block storage disk snapshot.
Note
These steps are also in the Amazon EC2 documentation. To learn more, see Restoring an Amazon EBS Volume from a Snapshot in the Amazon EC2 documentation.
To create an EBS volume from an exported Lightsail block storage disk snapshot


Sign in to the Amazon EC2 console.


From the navigation bar, select the region that your snapshot is located in.


In the navigation pane, choose Elastic Block Store, and then choose Snapshots.


Locate and select the exported Lightsail block storage disk snapshot.


Exported disk snapshot can be identified by the A disk snapshot exported from Amazon Lightsail description of the EBS snapshot as shown in the following screenshot:



Choose Actions, then choose Create Volume.


Choose a volume type from the Volume Type drop-down menu. For more information, see Amazon EBS Volume Types in the Amazon EC2 documentation.


For Size (GiB), type the size of the volume, or verify that the default size of the snapshot is adequate.


With a Provisioned IOPS SSD volume, for IOPS, type the maximum number of input/output operations per second (IOPS) that the volume should support.


For Availability Zone, choose the Availability Zone in which to create the volume. EBS volumes can only be attached to EC2 instances in the same Availability Zone.


(Optional) Choose Create additional tags to add tags to the volume. For each tag, provide a tag key and a tag value.


Choose Create Volume. After your volume is created, it is listed in the Elastic Block Store > Volumes section of the Amazon EC2 console.


Next steps
Here are a few additional steps you can perform after creating a new Amazon EC2 instance:
 After you've restored a volume from a snapshot, you can attach it to an instance to begin using it. For more information, see Attaching an Amazon EBS Volume to an Instance in the Amazon EC2 documentation.
 If you restored a snapshot to a larger volume than the default for that snapshot, you must extend the file system on the volume to take advantage of the extra space. For more information, see Modifying the Size, IOPS, or Type of an EBS Volume on Linux in the Amazon EC2 documentation.