Managing access to Amazon Lightsail for an IAM user
Last updated: May 20, 2019 
As an AWS account root user, or an AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) user with administrator access, you can create one or more IAM users in your AWS account, and those users can be configured with different levels of access to services offered by AWS.
For Amazon Lightsail, you might want to create an IAM user who can access only the Lightsail service. You do this when someone joins your team who requires access to view, create, edit, or delete Lightsail resources but doesn’t need access to other services offered by AWS. To configure this, you must first create an IAM policy that grants access to Lightsail, then create an IAM group, and attach the policy to the group. You then create IAM users and make them members of the group, which gives them access to Lightsail.
When someone leaves your team, you can remove the user from the Lightsail access group to revoke their access to Lightsail, if for example, they left your team but still work at your company. Or you can delete the user from IAM, if for example, they left your company and will not require access again.
Contents
 Create an IAM policy for Lightsail access
 Create an IAM group for Lightsail access and attach the Lightsail access policy
 Create an IAM user and add the user to the Lightsail access group
Create an IAM policy for Lightsail access
Follow these steps to create an IAM policy for Lightsail access. For more information, see Creating IAM Policies in the IAM documentation.


Sign in to the IAM console.


Choose Policies in the left navigation pane.


Choose Create Policy.


In the Create Policy page, choose the JSON tab.



Highlight the contents of the text box, and then copy and paste the following policy configuration text.


{
       "Version": "2012-10-17",
       "Statement": [
           {
               "Effect": "Allow",
               "Action": [
                   "lightsail:*"
               ],
               "Resource": "*"
           }
       ]
   }
The result should look like the following example:

This grants access to all Lightsail actions and resources. Actions that require access to other services offered by AWS, such as enabling VPC peering, exporting Lightsail snapshots to Amazon EC2, or creating Amazon EC2 resources using Lightsail, require additional permissions not included in this policy. For more information, see the following guides:
    Set up Amazon VPC peering to work with AWS resources outside of Amazon Lightsail
    Exporting Amazon Lightsail snapshots to Amazon EC2
    Creating Amazon EC2 instances from exported snapshots in Lightsail
Important
Action-specific and resource-specific permissions are not currently supported in the Lightsail console. If you configure a policy that grants access to specific Lightsail actions or resources, the user will get a 403 error when signing in to the Lightsail console.


Choose Review Policy.


In the Review Policy page, name the policy. Give it a descriptive name; for example, LightsailFullAccessPolicy.


Add a description, and review the policy settings. If you need to make changes, choose Previous to modify the policy.



After you confirm the policy settings are correct, choose Create Policy.


The policy is now created and can be added to an existing IAM group, or you can create a new IAM group using the steps in the following section of this guide.
Create an IAM group for Lightsail access and attach the Lightsail access policy
Follow these steps to create an IAM group for Lightsail access, then attach the Lightsail access policy created in the previous section of this guide. For more information, see Creating IAM Groups and Attaching a Policy to an IAM Group in the IAM documentation.


In the IAM console, choose Groups in the left navigation pane.


Choose Create New Group.


In the Set Group Name page, name the group. Give it a descriptive name; for example, LightsailFullAccessGroup.


In the Attach Policy page, search for the Lightsail policy you created earlier in this guide; for example, LightsailFullAccessPolicy.


Add a checkmark next to the policy, then choose Next step.


Review the group settings. If you need to make changes, choose Previous to modify the group policies.


After you confirm the group settings are correct, choose Create Group.


The group is now created, and users added to the group will have access to Lightsail actions and resources. You can add existing IAM users to the group, or you can create new IAM users using the steps in the following section of this guide.
Create an IAM user and add the user to the Lightsail access group
Follow these steps to create an IAM user and add the user to the Lightsail access group. For more information, see Creating an IAM User in Your AWS Account and Adding and Removing Users in an IAM Group in the IAM documentation.


In the IAM console, choose Users in the left navigation pane.


Choose Add user.


In the Set user details section of the page, name the user.


Under the Select AWS access type section of the page, choose from the following options:


Choose Programmatic Access to enable an access key ID and a secret access key for the AWS API, CLI, SDK, and other development tools, which can be used for Lightsail actions and resources. For more information, see Configuring the AWS Command Line Interface to work with Amazon Lightsail.


Choose AWS Management Console access to enable a password that allows the user to sign in to the AWS Management Console, and thereby the Lightsail console. The following password options appear when this option is selected:


Choose Autogenerated password to have IAM generate the password, or choose Custom password to enter your own password.


Choose Require password reset to have the user create a new password (reset their password) at the next sign in.
Note
If you choose the Programmatic Access option only, the user will not be able to sign in to the AWS console, and the Lightsail console.




Choose Next: Permissions.


Under the Set permissions section of the page, choose Add user to group, and then select the Lightsail access group you created earlier in this guide; for example, LightsailFullAccessGroup.



Choose Next: Tags.


(Optional) Add metadata to the user by attaching tags as key-value pairs. For more information about using tags in IAM, see Tagging IAM Entities.


Choose Next: Review.


Review the user settings. If you need to make changes, choose Previous to modify the user’s groups or policies.


After you confirm the user settings are correct, choose Create user.


The user is created, and the user will have access to Lightsail. To revoke the user’s Lightsail access, remove the user from the Lightsail access group. For more information, see Adding and Removing Users in an IAM Group in the IAM documentation.


To get the user’s credentials, choose the following options:


Choose Download .csv to download a file containing the user name, password, access key ID, secret access key, and the AWS console login link for your account.


Choose Show under Secret access key to view the access key that can be used to access Lightsail programmatically (using the AWS API, CLI, SDK, and other development tools).
Important
This is your only opportunity to view or download the secret access keys, and you must provide this information to your users before they can use the AWS API. Save the user's new access key ID and secret access key in a safe and secure place. You will not have access to the secret keys again after this step.


Choose Show under Password to view the user’s password if it was generated by IAM. You should provide the password to the user so that they can sign in for the first time.


Choose Send email to send an email to the user letting them know they now have access to Lightsail.


