Getting help in Amazon Lightsail
Last updated: May 17, 2017 
In Amazon Lightsail, you can get help in several ways.
Context-sensitive help panel in Lightsail
Lightsail has a context-sensitive Help panel on each page of the console with additional tips and information that are specific to the page you're on. Open the help panel any time you have a question about something on the page, and close it when you're good to go. You can open the help panel by choosing Help on any page, or by choosing any of the small question marks throughout the user interface.

About this developer guide
The Amazon Lightsail developer guide contains how-to topics and conceptual overviews to help you work in Lightsail. For example, you can create an instance, connect to your instance, or manage your domain.
Using search
You can search for doc topics from any page in Lightsail by using the search box at the top of each page. To refine your search, you can search again from the documentation search page.
Didn't find what you were looking for? Sorry to hear that! Send us feedback and we'll get on it. On every page in Lightsail, you can choose Questions? Comments? and submit feedback to make suggestions. We'll get back to you with an answer.
Using the Lightsail CLI and API
You can use the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI) or the Lightsail REST API to create, read, update, and delete Lightsail resources. In addition to the REST API, we also have an SDK in multiple languages, including Java, Ruby, JavaScript (Node.js), Go, PHP, Python, .NET (C#), and C. For more information about the Lightsail API, see the Lightsail API reference.
Note
You need to generate access keys to use the Lightsail API. Learn more about setting up access keys to use the Lightsail API.
The AWS CLI is helpful when you work with your Lightsail resources. In the AWS CLI, just type aws lightsail help to learn about the available commands. For help on a specific CLI command, type the command name followed by help to learn more about its parameters and exceptions. For more information, see the Lightsail CLI reference.
AWS forums and other community resources
You can also post your questions in our AWS discussion forum: AWS Forums.