Creating a larger instance, block storage disk, or database from a snapshot in Amazon Lightsail
Last updated: July 12, 2019 
It happens. Your cloud project is growing and you need more compute power right away! We can help you with that. To upsize your Lightsail instance, block storage disk, or database, create a snapshot of your resource, and then create a new, larger version of that resource using the snapshot.
Note
You cannot create a resource from a snapshot using a smaller plan size than the original resource. For example, you can't go from an 8 GB instance to a 2 GB instance.
Prerequisites
You'll need a snapshot of your Lightsail instance, block storage disk, or database. For more information, see Snapshots in Amazon Lightsail.
Create your resource


Sign in to the Lightsail console.


Choose the Snapshots tab.


Find the Lightsail resource whose snapshot you want to use to create a new, larger resource, and choose the right-arrow to expand the list of snapshots.


Choose the ellipsis icon next to the snapshot you want to use, and choose Create new.



On the Create page, you have a few optional settings to choose from. For example, you can change the Availability Zone. For instances, you can add a launch script, or change the SSH key you use to connect to it.


You can accept all the defaults and move on to the next step.


Choose the plan (or bundle) for your new resource. At this point, you can choose a larger bundle size than the original resource, if you'd like.
Note
You cannot create the resource using a smaller plan size than the original resource. The bundle options that are smaller than the original resource will be unavailable.


Enter a name for your instance.


Resource names:
    Must be unique within each AWS Region in your Lightsail account.
    Must contain 2 to 255 characters.
    Must start and end with an alphanumeric character or number.
    Can include alphanumeric characters, numbers, periods, dashes, and underscores.

Choose Create.

Lightsail takes you to the management page for your new resource, and you can start managing it.