Download and set up PuTTY to connect using SSH in Amazon Lightsail
Last updated: May 28, 2020 
You can use an SSH client like PuTTY to connect to your Lightsail instance. PuTTY requires a copy of your private SSH key. You might already have a key, or you might want to use the key pair that Lightsail creates. Either way, we've got you covered. For more information about SSH, see SSH and connecting to your Lightsail instance.
This topic walks you through the steps to download a key pair and set up PuTTY to connect to your instance. You can also connect to your instance from within the Lightsail console without installing or configuring any software. For more information about connecting to your instance using the Lightsail console, see Connecting to your Linux or Unix instance in Amazon Lightsail.
Prerequisites

You need a running instance in Lightsail. For more information, see Create an instance in Amazon Lightsail.
We recommended that you create a static IP address and attach it to your instance so you won't have to reconfigure PuTTY if your public IP address changes later. For more information, see Create a static IP and attach it to an instance in Amazon Lightsail.

Step 1: Download and install PuTTY
PuTTY is a free implementation of SSH for Windows. You can learn all about PuTTY on this page, including restrictions related to countries where encryption isn't allowed. If you already have PuTTY, you can skip to Step 2.

Download the PuTTY installer or executable file from the following link: Download PuTTY.

If you need help deciding which download to choose, see the PuTTY documentation. We recommend using the latest version.

Go on to Step 2 to get your private key before you configure PuTTY. 

Step 2: Get your private key ready
You have several options for getting your private key. You might want to use the default private key that Lightsail generates, you might want to have Lightsail create a new private key for you, or you might already have one from another service. The steps for each of these options is outlined in the following procedures:


Sign in to the Lightsail console.


Choose Account on the top navigation bar, and then choose Account from the drop-down.


Choose the SSH Keys tab.



Choose one of the following options depending on which private key you prefer to use:
    To use the default private key that Lightsail generates, choose Download next to the default private key for the AWS Region where your instance is located.
    To create a new key pair in Lightsail, choose Create New. Choose the AWS Region where your instance is located, and choose Create. Enter a name, and choose Generate key pair. You will be given the option to download the private key.
Important
You can only download the private key once. Save it in a secured location.
    To use your own key pair, choose Upload New. Choose the AWS Region where your instance is located, and choose Upload. Choose Upload file, and then locate the file in your local drive. Choose Upload key when you're ready to upload your public key file to Lightsail.


If you downloaded the private key, or you created a new private key in Lightsail, then make sure to save the .pem key file somewhere you can easily find it.


We also recommend that you set permissions for the file so that no one else can read it.
Step 3: Configure PuTTYgen with your Lightsail private key
Now that you have a copy of your .pem key file, you can set up PuTTY using the PuTTY Key Generator (PuTTYgen).


Start PuTTYgen (for example, from the Start menu, choose All Programs, PuTTY, PuTTYgen).


Choose Load.


By default, PuTTYgen displays only files with the .ppk extension. To locate your .pem file, select the option to display files of all types.

Choose lightsailDefaultKey.pem, and then press Open.

PuTTYgen confirms that you successfully imported the key, and then you can choose OK.

Choose Save private key, and then confirm you don't want to save it with a passphrase.

If you choose to create a passphrase as an extra measure of security, remember you will need to enter it every time you connect to your instance using PuTTY.


Specify a name and a location to save your private key, and then choose Save.


Close PuTTYgen.


Step 4: Finish configuring PuTTY with your private key and instance information
You're almost there! Hang on while we make one last change.


Open PuTTY.


From Lightsail, grab the public IP address (hopefully you're using a static IP address) from the instance management page.


You can get the public IP address from the Lightsail home page, or choose your instance to view more details about it.


Type (or paste) the public IP address into the Host Name (or IP address) field.
Note
Port 22 is already open for SSH on your Lightsail instance, so accept the default port.


Under Category, expand SSH, and then choose Auth.



Choose Browse to navigate to the .ppk file that you created in the previous step, and then choose Open.


Choose Open again, and then choose Yes to trust this connection in the future.


Log in using one of the following default user names depending on your instance operating system:
    Amazon Linux, openSUSE, and FreeBSD: ec2-user
    CentOS: centos
    Debian: admin
    Ubuntu: ubuntu
    Certified by Bitnami instances: bitnami
    Plesk instances: ubuntu


For more information about instance operating systems, see Choosing an image in Lightsail.

Be sure to save your connection for future use.

Next steps
If you need to connect again, see Connect to your Lightsail instance using PuTTY.