What is Amazon Lightsail?
Last updated: January 13, 2020 
Amazon Lightsail is the easiest way to get started with AWS if you just need virtual private servers. Lightsail includes everything you need to launch your project quickly – a virtual machine, SSD-based storage, data transfer, DNS management, and a static IP – for a low, predictable price. After you create your instance, you can easily connect to it. You can manage your instances using the Lightsail console, Lightsail API, or Lightsail command line interface (CLI).
Who is Lightsail for?
Lightsail is for developers. You can choose an image for your Lightsail instance that jumpstarts your dev project so you don't have to spend as much time installing software or frameworks.
If you're an individual developer or hobbyist working on a personal project, Lightsail can help you deploy and manage basic cloud resources. You might also be interested in learning or experimenting with cloud services, such as virtual machines or networking. Lightsail provides a quick way to get started.
Lightsail has images with base operating systems, development stacks like LAMP, LEMP (Nginx), and SQL Server Express, and applications like WordPress, Drupal, and Magento. For more detailed information about the software installed on each image, see Choose a Lightsail instance image.
As your project grows, you can add block storage disks and attach them to your Lightsail instance. You can take snapshots of these instances and disks and easily create new instances from those snapshots. You can also peer your VPC so that your Lightsail instances can use other AWS resources outside of Lightsail.
You can also create a Lightsail load balancer and attach target instances to create a highly available application. You can also configure your load balancer to handle encrypted (HTTPS) traffic, session persistence, health checking, and more.
Operating systems in Lightsail
Linux
 Amazon Linux 2018
 CentOS 7
 Ubuntu Server 16 and 18
 Free BSD 10
 Debian 8 and 9
 openSUSE Leap
Windows
 Windows Server 2016
 Windows Server 2012 R2
CMS applications in Lightsail
Linux
 WordPress certified by Bitnami
 WordPress Multisite certified by Bitnami
 Drupal certified by Bitnami
 Ghost certified by Bitnami
 Joomla certified by Bitnami
 Plesk Hosting Stack on Ubuntu
E-commerce and project management applications in Lightsail
Linux
 Magento certified by Bitnami (eCommerce)
 Redmine (Project Management)
Development stacks in Lightsail
Linux
 LAMP stack (PHP 7) certified by Bitnami
 Node.js certified by Bitnami
 MEAN Stack certified by Bitnami (HVM)
 LEMP Stack (Nginx) by Bitnami
 Django certified by Bitnami
 GitLab certified by Bitnami (HVM)
Windows
 SQL Server 2016 Express
Get started now
You can do any of the following to get going:
  Create your first instance 
  Connecting to your Linux or Unix instance in Amazon Lightsail 
  Creating a DNS zone to manage your domain’s DNS records in Amazon Lightsail 