Getting Started with AWS Artifact
AWS Artifact offers a number of documents for downloading and allows you to accept and manage legal agreements such as the Business Associate Addendum (BAA). If you use AWS Organizations, you can accept agreements on behalf of all accounts within your organization. When accepted, all existing and subsequent member accounts are automatically covered by the agreement.
This Getting Started tutorial shows you how to set up permissions to download reports or manage agreements by completing the following steps:


Step 1: Create an Administrators Group and Add an IAM User


Step 2: Download a Report and Manage an Agreement


Step 1: Create an Administrators Group and Add an IAM User
In this step, you create an Administrators group, create an IAM user for yourself, and add your IAM user to the group. Creating an IAM group allows you to attach the permissions to a group instead of an individual user, and you can grant the same permission to other users by adding them to the group.
To create an administrator user for yourself and add the user to an administrators group (console)


Use your AWS account email address and password to sign in as the AWS account root user to the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/.
Note
We strongly recommend that you adhere to the best practice of using the Administrator IAM user below and securely lock away the root user credentials. Sign in as the root user only to perform a few account and service management tasks.


In the navigation pane, choose Users and then choose Add user.


For User name, enter Administrator.


Select the check box next to AWS Management Console access. Then select Custom password, and then enter your new password in the text box.


(Optional) By default, AWS requires the new user to create a new password when first signing in. You can clear the check box next to User must create a new password at next sign-in to allow the new user to reset their password after they sign in.


Choose Next: Permissions.


Under Set permissions, choose Add user to group.


Choose Create group.


In the Create group dialog box, for Group name enter Administrators.


Choose Filter policies, and then select AWS managed -job function to filter the table contents.


In the policy list, select the check box for AdministratorAccess. Then choose Create group.
Note
You must activate IAM user and role access to Billing before you can use the AdministratorAccess permissions to access the AWS Billing and Cost Management console. To do this, follow the instructions in step 1 of the tutorial about delegating access to the billing console.


Back in the list of groups, select the check box for your new group. Choose Refresh if necessary to see the group in the list.


Choose Next: Tags.


(Optional) Add metadata to the user by attaching tags as key-value pairs. For more information about using tags in IAM, see Tagging IAM Entities in the IAM User Guide.


Choose Next: Review to see the list of group memberships to be added to the new user. When you are ready to proceed, choose Create user.


You can use this same process to create more groups and users and to give your users access to your AWS account resources. To learn about using policies that restrict user permissions to specific AWS resources, see Access Management and Example Policies.
Note
For information on IAM policies that are specific to AWS Artifact, see Controlling Access.
You can repeat the preceding steps one through six and then choose the Administrators group from the list to grant administrator permissions to other IAM users.
Step 2: Download a Report and Manage an Agreement
Now that you have set up your IAM users and policies, you can download a document by following the procedure in Downloading Reports in AWS Artifact. You can also manage your AWS agreements. For more information, see Managing Your Agreements in AWS Artifact. 