Managing an Agreement for a Single Account
You can accept agreements for just your account,  even if your account is a member account in an organization in AWS Organizations. For more information about AWS Organizations, see the AWS Organizations User Guide. 
Accepting an Agreement with AWS
If you're an administrator of an account, you can give IAM users and federated users with roles the permissions to access and manage one or more of your agreements. By default, only users with administrative privileges can accept an agreement. To accept an agreement, IAM and federated users must have the following permissions:
artifact:DownloadAgreement
artifact:AcceptAgreement
For more information about these permissions, see Create an IAM Policy.
Important
Before you accept an agreement, we recommend that you consult with your legal, privacy, and compliance team.
To accept an agreement with AWS


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the AWS Artifact console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/artifact/.


On the AWS Artifact navigation pane, choose Agreements.


Choose the Account agreements tab.


Expand the section of the agreement that you want.


Choose Download and review.


In the Terms and conditions dialog box, choose Accept and download.
Note
The NDA is a legally binding contract. We recommend that you read it closely.


Review the agreement and then select the check boxes to indicate that you agree with the content.


Choose Accept to accept the agreement for just your account.


Terminating an Agreement with AWS
If you used the AWS Artifact console to accept an agreement, you can use the console to terminate that agreement. To terminate an agreement, IAM and federated users must have the following permissions:
artifact:TerminateAgreement
For more information about these permissions, see Create an IAM Policy.
Note
If you didn't use the AWS Artifact console to accept an agreement, you can't use the console to terminate the agreement. For more information, see Managing an Existing Offline Agreement.
To terminate your online agreement with AWS


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the AWS Artifact console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/artifact/.


On the AWS Artifact navigation pane, choose Agreements.


Choose the Account agreements tab.


For the agreement that you want to terminate, choose Terminate agreement for this account. 


Choose the Terminate section. 


Select all check boxes to indicate that you agree to terminate the agreement. 


Choose the Terminate button. When prompted, choose it again.

