Create a Cluster
A cluster is a collection of individual HSMs. AWS CloudHSM synchronizes the HSMs in each cluster so that they function as a logical unit.
Important
When you create a cluster, AWS CloudHSM creates a service-linked role named AWSServiceRoleForCloudHSM. If AWS CloudHSM cannot create the role or the role does not already exist, you may not be able to create a cluster. For more information, see Resolving Cluster Creation Failures. For more information about service–linked roles, see Service-Linked Roles for AWS CloudHSM. 
When you create a cluster, AWS CloudHSM creates a security group for the cluster on your behalf. This security group controls network access to the HSMs in the cluster. It allows inbound connections only from Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances that are in the security group. By default, the security group doesn't contain any instances. Later, you launch a client instance and configure the cluster's security group to allow communication and connections with the HSM.
You can create a cluster from the AWS CloudHSM console, the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI), or the AWS CloudHSM API. 
To create a cluster (console)


Open the AWS CloudHSM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/.


On the navigation bar, use the region selector to choose one of the AWS Regions where AWS CloudHSM is currently supported. 


Choose Create cluster.


In the Cluster configuration section, do the following:


For VPC, select the VPC that you created.


For AZ(s), next to each Availability Zone, choose the private subnet that you created. 
Note
Even if AWS CloudHSM is not supported in a given Availability Zone, performance should not be affected, as AWS CloudHSM automatically load balances across all HSMs in a cluster. See AWS CloudHSM Regions and Endpoints in the AWS General Reference to see Availability Zone support for AWS CloudHSM.


Choose Next: Review.


Review your cluster configuration, and then choose Create cluster.


To create a cluster (AWS CLI)
 At a command prompt, run the create-cluster command. Specify the HSM instance type and the subnet IDs of the subnets where you plan to create HSMs. Use the subnet IDs of the private subnets that you created. Specify only one subnet per Availability Zone. 
```
  $ aws cloudhsmv2 create-cluster --hsm-type hsm1.medium --subnet-ids   
{
      "Cluster": {
          "BackupPolicy": "DEFAULT",
          "VpcId": "vpc-50ae0636",
          "SubnetMapping": {
              "us-west-2b": "subnet-49a1bc00",
              "us-west-2c": "subnet-6f950334",
              "us-west-2a": "subnet-fd54af9b"
          },
          "SecurityGroup": "sg-6cb2c216",
          "HsmType": "hsm1.medium",
          "Certificates": {},
          "State": "CREATE_IN_PROGRESS",
          "Hsms": [],
          "ClusterId": "cluster-igklspoyj5v",
          "CreateTimestamp": 1502423370.069
      }
  }
  ```
To create a cluster (AWS CloudHSM API)
 Send a https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/latest/APIReference/API_CreateCluster.html request. Specify the HSM instance type and the subnet IDs of the subnets where you plan to create HSMs. Use the subnet IDs of the private subnets that you created. Specify only one subnet per Availability Zone.
If your attempts to create a cluster fail, it might be related to problems with the AWS CloudHSM service-linked roles. For help on resolving the failure, see Resolving Cluster Creation Failures.