Authorizing Aggregator Accounts to Collect AWS Config Configuration and Compliance Data Using the Console
AWS Config allows you to authorize aggregator accounts to collect AWS Config configuration and compliance data. 
This flow is not required if you are aggregating source accounts that are part of AWS Organizations.
On the Authorizations page, you can do the following:
 Add Authorization to allow an aggregator account and region to collect AWS Config configuration and compliance data.
 Authorize a pending request from an aggregator account to collect AWS Config configuration and compliance data.
 Delete an authorization for an aggregator account.
Topics
 Add Authorization for Aggregator Accounts and Regions
 Authorize a Pending Request for an Aggregator Account
 Delete Authorization for an Exisiting Aggregator Account
 Learn More
Add Authorization for Aggregator Accounts and Regions
You can add authorization to grant permission to aggregator accounts and regions to collect AWS Config configuration and compliance data.


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the AWS Config console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/config/.


Navigate to the Authorizations page and choose Add authorization.


For Aggregator account, type the 12-digit account ID of an aggregator account.


For Aggregator region, choose the AWS regions where aggregator account is allowed to collect AWS Config configuration and compliance data.


Choose Add authorization to confirm your selection.


AWS Config displays an aggregator account, region, and authorization status.
Note
You can also add authorization to aggregator accounts and regions programatically using AWS CloudFormation sample template. For more information, see AWS::Config::AggregationAuthorization in the AWS CloudFormation user guide.
Authorize a Pending Request for an Aggregator Account
If you have a pending authorization request from an exisiting aggregator account you will see the request status on the Authorizations page. You can authorize a pending request from this page.

For the aggregator account you want to authorize, choose Authorize in the Actions column.


A confirmation message is displayed to confirm you grant permission to an aggregator account and region for collecting AWS Config data.

Choose Authorize to grant this permission for an aggregator account and region.

The authorization status changes from Requesting for authorization to Authorized.
Delete Authorization for an Exisiting Aggregator Account

For the aggregator account you want to delete authorization, choose Delete in the Actions column.

A warning message is displayed. When you delete this authorization, AWS Config data is not shared with an aggregator account.
Note
After authorization for an aggregator is deleted the data will remain in the aggregator account for up to 24 hours before being deleted.

Choose Delete to confirm your selection.

The aggregator account is deleted.
Learn More

Concepts
Setting Up an Aggregator Using the Console
Viewing Configuration and Compliance Data in the Aggregated View
Troubleshooting for Multi-Account Multi-Region Data Aggregation
