AWS Config Resources
The following related resources can help you as you work with this service.
 AWS Config – The primary web page for information about AWS Config.
 AWS Config Pricing
 Technical FAQ
 Partners – Links to partner products that are fully integrated with AWS Config to help you visualize, monitor, and manage the data from your configuration stream, configuration snapshots, or configuration history.
  Classes & Workshops – Links to role-based and specialty courses as well as self-paced labs to help sharpen your AWS skills and gain practical experience.
  AWS Developer Tools – Links to developer tools, SDKs, IDE toolkits, and command line tools for developing and managing AWS applications.
  AWS Whitepapers – Links to a comprehensive list of technical AWS whitepapers, covering topics such as architecture, security, and economics and authored by AWS Solutions Architects or other technical experts.
  AWS Support Center – The hub for creating and managing your AWS Support cases. Also includes links to other helpful resources, such as forums, technical FAQs, service health status, and AWS Trusted Advisor.
  AWS Support – The primary web page for information about AWS Support, a one-on-one, fast-response support channel to help you build and run applications in the cloud.
  Contact Us – A central contact point for inquiries concerning AWS billing, account, events, abuse, and other issues. 
  AWS Site Terms – Detailed information about our copyright and trademark; your account, license, and site access; and other topics.
AWS Software Development Kits for AWS Config
An AWS software development kit (SDK) makes it easier to build applications that access cost-effective, scalable, and reliable AWS infrastructure services. With AWS SDKs, you can get started in minutes with a single, downloadable package that includes the library, code samples, and reference documentation. The following table lists the available SDKs and third-party libraries you can use to access AWS Config programmatically. 




Type of Access
Description




AWS SDKs
AWS provides the following SDKs: [See the AWS documentation website for more details]


Third-party libraries
Developers in the AWS developer community also provide their own libraries, which you can find at the following AWS developer centers: [See the AWS documentation website for more details]


