Setting Up AWS Config Rules with the Console
The Rules page provides initial AWS managed rules that you can add to your account. After set up, AWS Config evaluates your AWS resources against the rules that you choose. You can update the rules and create additional managed rules after set up. 
To see the complete list of AWS managed rules, see List of AWS Config Managed Rules.
For example, you can choose the cloudtrail-enabled rule, which evaluates whether your account has a CloudTrail trail. If your account doesn't have a trail, AWS Config flags the resource type and the rule as noncompliant.

On the Rules page, you can do the following:


Type in the search field to filter results by rule name, description, or label. For example, type EC2 to return rules that evaluate EC2 resource types or type periodic to return rules that have a periodic trigger. Type "new" to search for newly added rules. For more information about trigger types, see Specifying Triggers for AWS Config Rules.


Choose Select all to add all rules or Clear all to remove all rules.


Choose the arrow icon to see the next page of rules.


Recently added rules are marked as New.


See the labels to identify the service that the rule evaluates and if the rule has a periodic trigger.


To set up AWS Config rules


On the Rules page, choose the rules that you want. You can customize these rules and add other rules to your account after set up.


Choose Next.


On the Review page, verify your setup details, and then choose Confirm.


The Rules page shows your rules and their current compliance results in the table. The result for each rule is Evaluating... until AWS Config finishes evaluating your resources against the rule. You can update the results with the refresh button. When AWS Config finishes evaluations, you can see the rules and resource types that are compliant or noncompliant. For more information, see Viewing Configuration Compliance.
Note
AWS Config evaluates only the resource types that it is recording. For example, if you add the cloudtrail-enabled rule but don't record the CloudTrail trail resource type, AWS Config can't evaluate whether the trails in your account are compliant or noncompliant. For more information, see Selecting Which Resources AWS Config Records.
You can view, edit, and delete your existing rules. You can also create additional AWS managed rules or create your own. For more information, see Managing your AWS Config Rules.