Live Content Quotas
This section describes the quotas for live content in AWS Elemental MediaPackage. For information about requesting an increase to soft quotas, see AWS Service Quotas. Hard quotas can't be changed.
Live Soft Quotas
The following table describes quotas in AWS Elemental MediaPackage for live content that can be increased. For information about changing quotas, see AWS Service Quotas. 
For some customers, your account quota might be below these published quotas. If you believe that you encountered a Resource limit exceeded error wrongfully, use the Service Quotas console to request quota increases.



Resource
Default Quota




Maximum Channels
30 Increasing your channel quota doesn't always mean that you also need to increase your endpoints. For example, if you need 34 channels and want to serve HLS, HLS encrypted, and DASH content from each channel, you need only 3 endpoints for each channel (one for each output type). The default endpoint quota is 10 so, although you do need a channel quota increase, you don't need to increase your endpoint quota. You won't exceed the quota of 10 endpoints per channel.


Maximum Endpoints per Channel
10This is a per channel quota. Each endpoint represents the output package that you use. If one channel serves HLS, HLS encrypted, DASH, DASH encrypted, Microsoft Smooth, and Microsoft Smooth encrypted content, then that channel has 6 endpoints and falls within the 10 endpoints quota. If you have 10 channels set up this same way, then you still haven't exceeded the quota because each channel uses only 6 endpoints.


Maximum IN_PROGRESS Harvest Jobs
3



Live Hard Quotas
The following table describes quotas in AWS Elemental MediaPackage for live content that can't be increased.



Resource or Operation
Quota




Input Stream Quotas
30 streams per channel, and 10 tracks per stream


Maximum Content Age for Time-shifted Viewing
336 hours (14 days)


Maximum Live Manifest Length
5 minutes


Maximum Time-shifted Manifest Length
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]


Maximum Live-to-VOD Manifest Length
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]


Request Rates per Channel
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]


REST API Requests
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]


