Step 2: Create a Role
An IAM role is an IAM identity that you can create in your account that has specific permissions. An IAM role is similar to an IAM user in that it is an AWS identity with permissions policies that determine what the identity can and cannot do in AWS. However, instead of being uniquely associated with one person, a role is intended to be assumable by anyone who needs it. Also, a role does not have standard long-term credentials such as a password or access keys associated with it. Instead, when you assume a role, it provides you with temporary security credentials for your role session. Create a role that AWS Elemental MediaPackage assumes when ingesting source content from Amazon S3.
When you create the role, you choose EC2 as the trusted entity that can assume the role because AWS Elemental MediaPackage isn't available for selection. In Step 3: Modify the Trust Relationship, you change the trusted entity to MediaPackage.
To create the service role for an EC2 trusted entity (IAM console)


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/.


In the navigation pane of the IAM console, choose Roles, and then choose Create role.


Choose the AWS service role type, and then choose EC2 trusted entity.


Choose the EC2 use case. Then choose Next: Permissions.


On the Attach permissions policies page, search for and choose the policy that you created in Step 1: Create a Policy. Then choose Next: Tags and Next: Review.


(Optional) Set a permissions boundary. This is an advanced feature that is available for service roles, but not service-linked roles. 


Expand the Set permissions boundary section and choose Use a permissions boundary to control the maximum role permissions. IAM includes a list of the AWS managed and customer managed policies in your account. Select the policy to use for the permissions boundary or choose Create policy to open a new browser tab and create a new policy from scratch. For more information, see step 4 in the procedure Creating IAM policies in the IAM User Guide. After you create the policy, close that tab and return to your original tab to select the policy to use for the permissions boundary.


Choose Next: Tags.


(Optional) Add metadata to the user by attaching tags as key-value pairs. For more information about using tags in IAM, see Tagging IAM Entities in the IAM User Guide.


Choose Next: Review.


If possible, enter a role name or role name suffix to help you identify the purpose of this role. Role names must be unique within your AWS account. They are not distinguished by case. For example, you cannot create roles named both PRODROLE and prodrole. Because various entities might reference the role, you cannot edit the name of the role after it has been created.


(Optional) For Role description, enter a description for the new role.


Review the role and then choose Create role.

