Step 1: Create and Configure Your VPC
The following sections demonstrate how to create and configure a VPC for use with AWS Directory Service.
Topics
 Create a New VPC
 Add a Second Subnet
Create a New VPC
This tutorial uses one of the VPC creation wizards to create the following:
 The VPC
 One of the subnets
 An Internet gateway
To create your VPC using the VPC wizard


Open the Amazon VPC console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/.


In the navigation pane, click VPC Dashboard. If you do not already have any VPC resources, locate the Your Virtual Private Cloud area of the dashboard and click Get started creating a VPC. Otherwise, click Start VPC Wizard.


Select the second option, VPC with a Single Public Subnet, and then click Select.


Enter the following information into the wizard and click Create VPC.
IP CIDR block
10.0.0.0/16
VPC name
ADS VPC
Public subnet
10.0.0.0/24
Availability Zone
No Preference
Subnet name
ADS Subnet 1
Enable DNS hostnames
Leave default selection
Hardware tenancy
Default


It takes several minutes for the VPC to be created. After the VPC is created, proceed to the following section to add a second subnet.


Add a Second Subnet
AWS Directory Service requires two subnets in your VPC, and each subnet must be in a different Availability Zone. The VPC wizard only creates one subnet, so you must manually create the second subnet, and specify a different Availability Zone than the first subnet. Create the second subnet by performing the following steps.
To create a subnet


Open the Amazon VPC console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/.


In the navigation pane, select Subnets, select the subnet with the name ADS Subnet 1, and select the Summary tab at the bottom of the page. Make a note of the Availability Zone of this subnet.


Click Create Subnet and enter the following information in the Create Subnet dialog box and click Yes, Create.
Name tag
ADS Subnet 2
VPC
Select your VPC. This is the VPC with the name ADS VPC.
Availability Zone
Select any Availability Zone other than the one noted in step 2. The two subnets used by AWS Directory Service must reside in different Availability Zones.
CIDR Block
10.0.1.0/24

