Security in AWS Directory Service
Cloud security at AWS is the highest priority. As an AWS customer, you benefit from a data center and network architecture that is built to meet the requirements of the most security-sensitive organizations.
Security is a shared responsibility between AWS and you. The shared responsibility model describes this as security of the cloud and security in the cloud:
 Security of the cloud – AWS is responsible for protecting the infrastructure that runs AWS services in the AWS Cloud. AWS also provides you with services that you can use securely. Third-party auditors regularly test and verify the effectiveness of our security as part of the AWS compliance programs. To learn about the compliance programs that apply to AWS Directory Service, see AWS Services in Scope by Compliance Program.
 Security in the cloud – Your responsibility is determined by the AWS service that you use. You are also responsible for other factors including the sensitivity of your data, your company’s requirements, and applicable laws and regulations. 
This documentation helps you understand how to apply the shared responsibility model when using AWS Directory Service. The following topics show you how to configure AWS Directory Service to meet your security and compliance objectives. You also learn how to use other AWS services that help you to monitor and secure your AWS Directory Service resources. 
Security Topics
The following security topics can be found in this section:
 Identity and Access Management for AWS Directory Service
 Logging and Monitoring in AWS Directory Service
 Compliance Validation for AWS Directory Service
 Resilience in AWS Directory Service
 Infrastructure Security in AWS Directory Service
Additional Security Topics
The following additional security topics can be found in this guide:
Accounts, Trusts, and AWS Resource Access
 Admin Account
 Group Managed Service Accounts
 When to Create a Trust Relationship
 Kerberos Constrained Delegation
 Grant Users and Groups Access to AWS Resources
 Enable Access to AWS Applications and Services
Secure Your Directory
 Secure Your AWS Managed Microsoft AD Directory
 Secure Your AD Connector Directory
Logging and Monitoring
 Monitor Your AWS Managed Microsoft AD
 Monitor Your AD Connector Directory
Resilience
 Patching and Maintenance for AWS Managed Microsoft AD