Creating New Cost and Usage Reports
This process shows how you can create new AWS Cost and Usage Reports to use with Athena.
To create new Cost and Usage Reports


Sign in to the Billing and Cost Management console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/


On the navigation pane, choose Cost & Usage Reports.


Choose Create report.


For Report name, enter a name for your report.


For Additional report details, select Include resource IDs to include the IDs of each individual resource in the report.


For Data refresh settings, select whether you want the Cost and Usage Reports to refresh if AWS applies refunds, credits, or support fees to your account after finalizing your bill. When a report refreshes, a new report is uploaded to Amazon S3.


Choose Next.


For S3 bucket, choose Configure.


In the Configure S3 Bucket dialog box, do one of the following:
    Select an existing bucket from the drop down list and choose Next.
    Enter a bucket name and the Region where you want to create a new bucket and choose Next.


Select I have confirmed that this policy is correct and choose Save.


For Report path prefix, enter the report path prefix that you want prepended to the name of your report. You must provide a report path prefix to use Athena with AWS CUR.


For Time granularity, choose Hourly if you want the line items in the report to be aggregated by the hour. Choose Daily if you want the line items in the report to be aggregated by the day.


For Report versioning, choose whether you want each version of the report to overwrite the previous version of the report or to be delivered in addition to the previous versions.


For Enable report data integration for, select whether you want to upload your AWS CUR to Amazon Athena, Amazon Redshift, or Amazon QuickSight. The report is compressed in the following formats:
    Athena: parquet compression
    Amazon Redshift or Amazon QuickSight: .gz compression


Choose Next.


After you have reviewed the settings for your report, choose Review and Complete.


Before moving on to the next procedure, you must wait for the first AWS CUR to be delivered to your Amazon S3 bucket. It might take up to 8 hours for AWS to deliver your first report.