Step 6: Clean Up
To avoid incurring extra charges, delete the resources that you're no longer using.
Note
Harvest jobs automatically expire off your account and can't be manually deleted.
Delete Live Resources
When you're done ingesting, serving, and harvesting from live content, delete the channel and endpoint. You must delete all endpoints on a channel before you can delete the channel. 
To delete an endpoint


On the Channels page, choose the channel that the endpoint is associated with.


On the channel details page, choose the name of the endpoint that you want to delete.


On the endpoint details page, choose Delete endpoint.


On the Delete Endpoints page, choose Save all.


To delete a channel


On the Channels page, choose the channel using one the following methods: 
    Choose the channel name
    Select the check box next to the channel name


Choose Delete selected or Delete channel.


In the confirmation dialog box, choose Delete.


AWS Elemental MediaPackage removes the channel and all associated endpoints.
Delete VOD Resources
When you're done ingesting and serving VOD content, delete the extra resources. If you want to make a specific output unavailable, delete the packaging configuration from the packaging group. If you want to make an asset no longer available for playback from any outputs, delete the asset. 
To delete an asset


On the AWS Elemental MediaPackage console, go to the Assets page, and then choose the ID of the asset.


On the asset's details page, choose Delete.


In the confirmation dialog box, choose Delete.


To delete a packaging configuration


On the AWS Elemental MediaPackage console, go to the Packaging groups page.


Choose the ID of the group that has the configuration that you want to delete.


On the packaging group's details page, in the Packaging configurations section, locate the configuration and choose its ID.


On the packaging configuration's details page, choose Delete.


In the confirmation dialog box, choose Delete.

