Step 6: Clean up resources
To avoid ongoing charges for resources you created for this tutorial, delete the Amazon S3 bucket if you'll no longer be using it. You can also clean up associated resources, such as the application and deployment group records in CodeDeploy and the on-premises instance.
You can use the AWS CLI or a combination of the CodeDeploy and Amazon S3 consoles and the AWS CLI to clean up resources. 
Clean up resources (CLI)
To delete the Amazon S3 bucket
 Call the rm command along with the --recursive switch against the bucket (for example, codedeploydemobucket). The bucket and all objects in the bucket will be deleted. 
aws s3 rm s3://your-bucket-name --recursive
To delete the application and deployment group records in CodeDeploy
 Call the delete-application command against the application (for example, CodeDeploy-OnPrem-App). The records for the deployment and deployment group will be deleted. 
aws deploy delete-application --application-name your-application-name
To deregister the on-premises instance and delete the IAM user
 Call the deregister command against the on-premises instance and region:
aws deploy deregister --instance-name your-instance-name --delete-iam-user --region your-region
Note
If you do not want to delete the IAM user associated with this on-premises instance, use the --no-delete-iam-user option instead.
To uninstall the CodeDeploy agent and remove the configuration file from the on-premises instance
 From the on-premises instance, call the uninstall command:
aws deploy uninstall
You have now completed all of the steps to clean up the resources used for this tutorial.
Clean up resources (console)
To delete the Amazon S3 bucket


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon S3 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/.


Choose the icon next to the bucket you want to delete (for example, codedeploydemobucket), but do not choose the bucket itself.


Choose Actions, and then choose Delete. 


When prompted to delete the bucket, choose OK. 


To delete the application and deployment group records in CodeDeploy


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the CodeDeploy console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/codedeploy.
Note
Sign in with the same account or IAM user information that you used in Getting started with CodeDeploy.


In the navigation pane choose Applications.


Choose the name of the application you want to delete (for example, CodeDeploy-OnPrem-App) and then choose Delete application.


When prompted, enter the name of the application to confirm you want to delete it, and then choose Delete. 


You cannot use the AWS CodeDeploy console to deregister the on-premises instance or uninstall the CodeDeploy agent. Follow the instructions in To deregister the on-premises instance and delete the IAM user .