Managing Amazon ECS Instances
AWS Explorer provides detailed views of Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) clusters and container repositories. You can create, delete and manage cluster and container details from within the Visual Studio development environment.
Modifying service properties
You can view service details, service events and service properties from the cluster view.


In AWS Explorer, open the context (right-click) menu for the cluster to manage, and then choose View.


In the ECS Cluster view, click Services on the left, and then click the Details tab in the details view. You can click Events to see event messages and Deployments to deployment status.


Click Edit. You can change the desired task count and the minimum and maximum healthy percent.


Click Save to accept changes or Cancel to revert to existing values.


Stopping a task
You can see the current status of tasks and stop one or more tasks in the cluster view.
To stop a task 


In AWS Explorer, open the context (right-click) menu for the cluster with tasks you wish to stop, and then choose View.


In the ECS Cluster view, click Tasks on the left.


Make sure Desired Task Status is set to Running. Choose the individual tasks to stop and then click Stop or click Stop All to select and stop all running tasks.


In the Stop Tasks dialog box, choose Yes.


Deleting a service
You can delete services from a cluster from the cluster view.
To delete a cluster service 


In AWS Explorer, open the context (right-click) menu for the cluster with a service you want to delete, and then choose View.


In the ECS Cluster view, click Services on the left, and then click Delete.


In the Delete Cluster dialog box, if there is a load balancer and target group in your cluster, you can choose to delete them with the cluster. They will not be used when the service is deleted.


In the Delete Cluster dialog box, choose OK. When the cluster is deleted, it will be removed from the AWS Explorer.


Deleting a cluster
You can delete an Amazon Elastic Container Service cluster from AWS Explorer.
To delete a cluster 


In AWS Explorer, open the context (right-click) menu for the cluster you want to delete under the Clusters node of Amazon ECS, and then choose Delete.


In the Delete Cluster dialog box, choose OK. When the cluster is deleted, it will be removed from the AWS Explorer.


Creating a repository
You can create an Amazon Elastic Container Registry repository from AWS Explorer.
To create a repository 


In AWS Explorer, open the context (right-click) menu of the Repositories node under Amazon ECS, and then choose Create Repository.


In the Create Repository dialog box, provide a repository name and then choose OK.


Deleting a repository
You can delete an Amazon Elastic Container Registry repository from AWS Explorer.
To delete a repository 


In AWS Explorer, open the context (right-click) menu of the Repositories node under Amazon ECS, and then choose Delete Repository.


In the Delete Repository dialog box, you can choose to delete the repository even if it contains images. Otherwise, it will only be deleted if it is empty. Click Yes.

