Accepting a Bring Your Own Subscription Offer
As a subscriber, you might want to migrate your existing data subscriptions to AWS Data Exchange. Bring your own subscription (BYOS) functionality allows you to migrate and fulfill existing subscriptions with participating data providers at no additional cost.
With BYOS offers, any billing relationship between providers and subscribers continues. BYOS offers are not subject to fulfillment fees. As a subscriber, you receive an AWS Marketplace invoice for the subscription with no charge.
Because the subscription lifecycle starts outside of AWS Data Exchange, the workflow for migrating the existing subscriptions to AWS Data Exchange using BYOS requires collaboration between the provider and subscriber.
Important
With BYOS offers, you're migrating a subscription that predates the availability of this product on AWS. AWS might verify your BYOS offer with the existing subscription agreement. If AWS cannot verify your BYOS offer, the offer and entitlements can be revoked without notice.
Before creating or accepting a BYOS offer on AWS Data Exchange, the provider and subscriber should perform the following steps together:
Prerequisites


The provider and the subscriber should contact each other about implementing a BYOS AWS Data Exchange solution.


The subscriber provides the AWS account ID that they want to use to subscribe to data products on AWS Data Exchange.


The subscriber accepts the BYOS offer as follows.
To accept a BYOS offer


Sign in to the AWS Data Exchange console.


In the left navigation pane, from Discover data, choose Product catalog.


In Product catalog, search for the name of the product or paste the product URL that the provider gave you (for example, AWS Data Exchange Heartbeat).


Choose the name of the product to review the BYOS offer.


Choose Continue to subscribe.


Review the terms of the offer, the data subscription agreement, and the included data sets.


If you accept the terms of the offer, review and accept the acknowledgement, and then choose Subscribe.

