Step 1: Create Your Amazon FSx for Lustre File System
Next, you create your file system in the console.
To create your file system


Open the Amazon FSx console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/fsx/.


From the dashboard, choose Create file system to start the file system creation wizard.


Choose FSx for Lustre and then choose Next to display the Create File System page.


Provide information in the File system details section:
    Provide a name for your file system. You can use up to 256 Unicode letters, white space, and numbers plus the special characters  - = . _ : /.
    For Deployment type, choose Persistent or Scratch: 

Choose Persistent deployment type for longer-term storage and workloads. The file servers are highly available, data is automatically replicated within the file system's Availability Zone (AZ), and this type supports encrypting data in transit. To learn in which AWS Regions encrypting data in transit is available, see Encrypting Data in Transit. 
Choose Scratch deployment type for temporary storage and shorter-term processing of data. Scratch 2 is the latest generation of scratch file systems, and offers higher burst throughput over baseline throughput and also in-transit encryption of data. 

For more information, see File System Deployment Options for Amazon FSx for Lustre .
    For Storage capacity, provide a storage capacity for your file system, in TiB: 
  For a persistent or scratch 2 file system, this value can be 1.2 TiB or increments of 2.4 TiB.
  For a scratch 1 file system, this value can be 1.2, 2.4, or increments of 3.6 TiB.
    For a persistent file system, set a value for Throughput per unit of storage  to either 50, 100, or 200 MB/s per tebibyte (TiB). Throughput per unit of storage is the amount of read and write throughput for each 1 tebibyte (TiB) of storage provisioned, in MB/s/TiB. For a 2.4 TiB ﬁle system, provisioning 50 MB/s/TiB of per unit storage throughput yields 117 MB/s of ﬁle system throughput. You pay for the amount of throughput that you provision.



Provide networking and security group information in the Network & security section:
    Choose the VPC that you want to associate with your file system. For this getting started exercise, choose the same VPC that you chose for your Amazon EC2 instance.
    For VPC security groups, the ID for the default security group for your VPC should be already added. If you're not using the default security group, make sure that the following inbound rule is added to the security group you're using for this getting started exercise.  
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]
The following screen capture shows an example of editing inbound rules.

    For Subnet, choose any value from the list of available subnets.


For the Encryption section, the options available vary depending upon which file system type you're creating: 
    For a persistent file system, you can choose an AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) encryption key to encrypt the data on your file system at rest. 
    For a scratch file system, data at rest is encrypted using the default Amazon FSx–managed key.
    For scratch 2 and persistent file systems, data in transit is encrypted automatically when the file system is accessed from a supported Amazon EC2 instance type. For more information, see Encrypting Data in Transit.


(Optional) Use the Data repository import/export panel to configure a data repository linked to an Amazon S3 bucket.
Select Import data from and export data to S3 to expand the panel and configure the data repository settings.



(Optional) Choose how Amazon FSx imports new and changed files from the linked S3 bucket. By default, Amazon FSx imports file listings at file system creation, and then whenever new files are added after this initial import. For more information, see Automatically import updates from your S3 bucket. 


Enter an optional Import prefix if you want to import only some of the data in your S3 bucket into your file system. The import prefix defines where in your S3 bucket to import data from. For more information, see Automatically import updates from your S3 bucket.


Keep Export prefix at the default setting. For more information about the data repository integration, see Linking your file system to an S3 bucket.
Important
If you link one or more Amazon FSx for Lustre file systems to an Amazon S3 bucket, don't delete the Amazon S3 bucket until all linked file systems have been deleted.


In Backup and maintenance - optional you can do the following.


For daily automatic backups:
     Disable the Daily automatic backup, which is enabled by default. 
    Set the start time for Daily automatic backup window.
    Set the Automatic backup retention period, from 1 - 35 days.
For more information, see Working with Backups.


Set the Weekly maintenance window start time, or leave it set to the default No preference.


Create any tags that you want to apply to your file system.


Choose Next to display the Create file system summary page.


Review the settings for your Amazon FSx for Lustre file system, and choose Create file system.


Now that you've created your file system, note its fully qualified domain name and mount name for a later step. You can find the fully qualified domain name and mount name for a file system by choosing the name of the file system in the File Systems dashboard, and then choosing Attach.