Enabling and disabling policy types
Before you can create and attach a policy to your organization, you must enable that policy type for use. Enabling a policy type is a one-time task on the organization root. You can enable a policy type from only the organization's master account.
Minimum permissions
To enable a policy type, you need permission to run the following actions:
organizations:EnablePolicyType
organizations:DescribeOrganization (needed only if you're using the AWS Organizations console)
organizations:ListRoots (needed only if you're using the AWS Organizations console)
To enable a policy type (console)


Sign in to the Organizations console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/organizations/. You must sign in as an AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) user, assume an IAM role, or sign in as the root user (not recommended) in the organization's master account.


On the Organize accounts tab, choose Root in the left navigation pane.


In the details pane on the right side, under ENABLE/DISABLE POLICY TYPES, and next to the policy type you want to use, choose Enable.


To enable a policy type (AWS CLI, AWS API)
You can use one of the following commands to enable a policy type:
 AWS CLI: aws organizations enable-policy-type
 AWS API: EnablePolicyType
Disabling a policy type
If you no longer want to use a certain policy type in your organization, you can disable that type to prevent its accidental use. You can disable a policy type from only the organization's master account.
Important*
When you disable a policy type, all policies of the specified type are automatically detached from all entities in the organization root. The policies are not*** deleted.
(Service control policy type only) If you re-enable the SCP policy type later, all entities in the organization root are initially attached to only the default FullAWSAccess SCP. Attachments of SCPs to entities are lost when the SCPs are disabled in the organization. If you late re-enable SCPs, you must reattach them to the organization's root, OUs, and accounts, as appropriate.
Minimum permissions
To disable SCPs, you need permission to run the following actions:
organizations:DisablePolicyType
organizations:DescribeOrganization (needed only if you're using the AWS Organizations console)
organizations:ListRoots (needed only if you're using the AWS Organizations console)
To disable a policy type (console)


Sign in to the Organizations console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/organizations/. You must sign in as an IAM user, assume an IAM role, or sign in as the root user (not recommended) in the organization's master account.


On the Organize accounts tab, choose Root in the left navigation pane.


In the details pane on the right side, under ENABLE/DISABLE POLICY TYPES, and next to the policy type you want to use, choose Disable.


To disable a policy type (AWS CLI, AWS API)
You can use one of the following commands to disable a policy type:
 AWS CLI: aws organizations disable-policy-type
 AWS API: DisablePolicyType