Viewing details about your organization
You can perform the following tasks using the AWS Organizations console:
Topics
 Viewing details of an organization from the master account
 Viewing details of a root
 Viewing details of an OU
 Viewing details of an account
 Viewing details of a policy
Viewing details of an organization from the master account
Minimum permissions
To view the details of an organization, you must have the following permission:
organizations:DescribeOrganization
To view details of an organization (console)
When signed in to the organization's master account in the AWS Organizations console, you can view details of the organization.


Sign in to the Organizations console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/organizations/. You must sign in as an IAM user, assume an IAM role, or sign in as the root user (not recommended) in the organization's master account.


Choose the Settings tab.


The console displays details about the organization, including its ID and the email address of the owner of its master account.
To view details of an organization (AWS CLI, AWS API)
You can use one of the following commands to view details of an organization:
 AWS CLI: aws organizations describe-organization 
 AWS API: DescribeOrganization
Viewing details of a root
Minimum permissions
To view the details of a root, you must have the following permissions:
organizations:DescribeOrganization (console only)
organizations:ListRoots 
To view details of a root (console)
When signed in to the organization's master account in the AWS Organizations console, you can view details of a root.


Sign in to the Organizations console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/organizations/. You must sign in as an IAM user, assume an IAM role, or sign in as the root user (not recommended) in the organization's master account.


Choose the Organize accounts tab, and then choose Home.


Choose the Root entity. Root is the default name, but you can rename it using the API or command line tools.


The Root pane on the right side of the page shows the details of the root.
To view details of a root (AWS CLI, AWS API)
You can use one of the following commands to view details of a root: 
 AWS CLI: aws organizations list-roots 
 AWS API: ListRoots
Viewing details of an OU
Minimum permissions
To view the details of an organizational unit (OU), you must have the following permissions:
organizations:DescribeOrganizationalUnit
organizations:DescribeOrganization (console only)
organizations:ListOrganizationsUnitsForParent (console only)
organizations:ListRoots (console only)
To view details of an OU (console)
When signed in to the organization's master account in the AWS Organizations console, you can view details of the OUs in your organization.


Sign in to the Organizations console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/organizations/. You must sign in as an IAM user, assume an IAM role, or sign in as the root user (not recommended) in the organization's master account.


On the Organize accounts tab, navigate to the OU that you want to examine. If the OU that you want is a child of another OU, choose each OU in the hierarchy to find the one you're looking for.


Select the check box for the OU. 


The Details pane on the right side of the page shows information about the OU.
To view details of an OU (AWS CLI, AWS API)
You can use one of the following commands to view details of an OU:
 AWS CLI: aws organizations describe-organizational-unit 
 AWS API: DescribeOrganizationalUnit
Viewing details of an account
Minimum permissions
To view the details of an AWS account, you must have the following permissions:
organizations:DescribeAccount
organizations:DescribeOrganization (console only)
organizations:ListAccounts (console only)
To view details of an AWS account (console)
When signed in to the organization's master account in the AWS Organizations console, you can view details about your accounts.


Sign in to the Organizations console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/organizations/. You must sign in as an IAM user, assume an IAM role, or sign in as the root user (not recommended) in the organization's master account.


Do one of the following:
    On the Accounts tab, choose the account that you want to examine.
    On the Organize accounts tab, navigate to and then choose an account card.


The Account summary pane on the right side of the page shows details of the selected account.
Note
By default, failed account creation requests are available for 90 days and hidden on the Accounts tab. To view a list that includes failed account creation requests, choose the switch at the top to change it to Show.
To view details of an account (AWS CLI, AWS API)
You can use one of the following commands to view details of an account:
 AWS CLI: aws organizations describe-account 
 AWS API: DescribeAccount
Viewing details of a policy
Minimum permissions
To view the details of a policy, you must have the following permissions:
organizations:DescribePolicy
organizations:ListPolicies
To view details of a policy (console)
When signed in to the organization's master account in the AWS Organizations console, you can view details about your policies.


Sign in to the Organizations console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/organizations/. You must sign in as an IAM user, assume an IAM role, or sign in as the root user (not recommended) in the organization's master account.


On the Policies tab, choose the policy that you want to examine.


Choose View policy details in the pane on the right side of the page.


To view details of a policy (AWS CLI, AWS API)
You can use one of the following commands to view details of a policy:
 AWS CLI: aws organizations describe-policy
 AWS API: DescribePolicy