Lambda sample applications
The GitHub repository for this guide includes sample applications that demonstrate the use of various languages and AWS services. Each sample application includes scripts for easy deployment and cleanup, an AWS SAM template, and supporting resources.

[ Node.js ]
Sample Lambda applications in Node.js
 blank-nodejs – A Node.js function that shows the use of logging, environment variables, AWS X-Ray tracing, layers, unit tests and the AWS SDK.
 nodejs-apig – A function with a public API endpoint that processes an event from API Gateway and returns an HTTP response.
 rds-mysql – A function that relays queries to a MySQL for RDS Database. This sample includes a private VPC and database instance configured with a password in AWS Secrets Manager.
 efs-nodejs – A function that uses an Amazon EFS file system in a Amazon VPC. This sample includes a VPC, file system, mount targets, and access point configured for use with Lambda.
 list-manager – A function processes events from an Amazon Kinesis data stream and update aggregate lists in Amazon DynamoDB. The function stores a record of each event in a MySQL for RDS Database in a private VPC. This sample includes a private VPC with a VPC endpoint for DynamoDB and a database instance.
 error-processor – A Node.js function generates errors for a specified percentage of requests. A CloudWatch Logs subscription invokes a second function when an error is recorded. The processor function uses the AWS SDK to gather details about the request and stores them in an Amazon S3 bucket.

[ Python ]
Sample Lambda applications in Python
 blank-python – A Python function that shows the use of logging, environment variables, AWS X-Ray tracing, layers, unit tests and the AWS SDK.

[ Ruby ]
Sample Lambda applications in Ruby
 blank-ruby – A Ruby function that shows the use of logging, environment variables, AWS X-Ray tracing, layers, unit tests and the AWS SDK.

[ Java ]
Sample Lambda applications in Java
 blank-java – A Java function that shows the use of Lambda's Java libraries, logging, environment variables, layers, AWS X-Ray tracing, unit tests, and the AWS SDK.
 java-basic – A minimal Java function with unit tests and variable logging configuration.
 java-events – A minimal Java function that uses the aws-lambda-java-events library with event types that don't require the AWS SDK as a dependency, such as Amazon API Gateway.
 java-events-v1sdk – A Java function that uses the aws-lambda-java-events library with event types that require the AWS SDK as a dependency (Amazon Simple Storage Service, Amazon DynamoDB, and Amazon Kinesis).
 s3-java – A Java function that processes notification events from Amazon S3 and uses the Java Class Library (JCL) to create thumbnails from uploaded image files.

[ Go ]
Sample Lambda applications in Go
 blank-go – A Go function that shows the use of Lambda's Go libraries, logging, environment variables, and the AWS SDK.

[ C# ]
Sample Lambda applications in C#
 blank-csharp – A C# function that shows the use of Lambda's .NET libraries, logging, environment variables, AWS X-Ray tracing, unit tests, and the AWS SDK.
 ec2-spot – A function that manages spot instance requests in Amazon EC2.

[ PowerShell ]
Sample Lambda applications in PowerShell
 blank-powershell – A PowerShell function that shows the use of logging, environment variables, and the AWS SDK.

To deploy a sample application, follow the instructions in its README file. To learn more about the architecture and use cases of an application, read the topics in this chapter.
Topics
 Blank function sample application for AWS Lambda
 Error processor sample application for AWS Lambda
 List manager sample application for AWS Lambda