Creating an Amazon SNS topic for budget notifications
When you create a budget that sends notifications to an Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) topic, you need to either have a preexisting Amazon SNS topic or create one. Amazon SNS topics allow you to send notifications over SNS in addition to email. Your budget must have permissions to send a notification to your topic. 
To create an Amazon SNS topic and grant permissions to your budget, use the Amazon SNS console.
To create an Amazon SNS notification topic and grant permissions


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon SNS console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/sns/v3/home.


On the navigation pane, choose Topics.


Choose Create topic.


For Name, enter the name for your notification topic.


(Optional) For Display name, enter the name that you want displayed when you receive a notification.


In Access policy, choose Advanced.


In the policy text field, after  "Statement": [, add the following text:


```
{
     "Sid": "E.g., AWSBudgetsSNSPublishingPermissions",
     "Effect": "Allow",
     "Principal": {
       "Service": "budgets.amazonaws.com"
     },
     "Action": "SNS:Publish",
     "Resource": "your topic ARN"
   },
   ```


Replace E.g., AWSBudgetsSNSPublishingPermissions with a string. The Sid must be unique within the policy.


Replace your topic ARN with the Amazon SNS topic ARN from step 7.


Choose Create topic.


Your topic now appears in the list of topics on the Topics page.
Checking or resending notification confirmation emails
When you create a budget with notifications, you also create Amazon SNS notifications. For notifications to be sent, you must accept the subscription to the Amazon SNS notification topic.
To confirm that your notification subscriptions have been accepted or to resend a subscription confirmation email, use the Amazon SNS console.
To check your notification status or to resend a notification confirmation email


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon SNS console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/sns/v3/home.


On the navigation pane, choose Subscriptions.


On the Subscriptions page, for Filter, enter budget. A list of your budget notifications appears.


Check the status of your notification. Under Status, PendingConfirmation appears if a subscription hasn't been accepted and confirmed.


(Optional) To resend a confirmation request, select the subscription with a pending confirmation and choose Request confirmation. Amazon SNS sends a confirmation request to the endpoints that are subscribed to the notification.


When each owner of an endpoint receives the email, they must choose the Confirm subscription link to activate the notification.
Protecting your Amazon SNS budget alerts data with SSE and AWS KMS
You can use server-side encryption (SSE) to transfer sensitive data in encrypted topics. SSE protects Amazon SNS messages by using keys managed in AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS).
To manage SSE using AWS Management Console or the AWS Service Development Kit (SDK), see Enabling Server-Side Encryption (SSE) for an Amazon SNS Topic in the Amazon Simple Notification Service Getting Started Guide.
To create encrypted topics using AWS CloudFormation, see the AWS CloudFormation User Guide.
SSE encrypts messages as soon as Amazon SNS receives them. The messages are stored encrypted and are decrypted using Amazon SNS only when they're sent.
Configuring AWS KMS permissions
You must configure your AWS KMS key policies before you can use SSE. The configuration enables you to encrypt topics, as well as encrypt and decrypt messages. For details about AWS KMS permissions, see AWS KMS API Permissions: Actions and Resources Reference in the AWS Key Management Service Developer Guide.
You can also use IAM policies to manage AWS KMS key permissions. For more information, see Using IAM Policies with AWS KMS.
Note
Although you can configure global permissions to send and receive message from Amazon SNS, AWS KMS requires you to name the full ARN of customer master keys (CMK) in the specific Regions. You can find this in the Resource section of an IAM policy.
You must ensure that the key policies of the CMK allow the necessary permissions. To do this, name the principals that produce and consume encrypted messages in Amazon SNS as users in the CMK policy.
To enable compatibility between AWS Budgets and encrypted Amazon SNS topics


Create a CMK.


Add the following text to the CMK policy.


```
   {
   "Version": "2012-10-17",
   "Statement": [{
       "Effect": "Allow",
       "Principal": {
           "Service": "budgets.amazonaws.com"
       },
   "Action": [
       "kms:GenerateDataKey*",
       "kms:Decrypt"
       ],
   "Resource": "*"
   }]
   }

```


Enable SSE for your SNS topic.
Note
Be sure that you're using the same CMK that grants AWS Budgets the permissions to publish to encrypted Amazon SNS topics.


Choose Save Changes.

