Managing your SEPA direct debit payment methods
If you meet the eligibility requirements, you can add an EU bank account as a SEPA direct debit payment method to your payment methods. To meet these requirements, your account must:
 Be an AWS Europe customer 
 Have accepted SEPA terms and conditions
 Have paid at least one invoice in full in the previous 12 months
 Have paid at least $100 cumulative over the previous 12 months
 Use euro as the preferred currency
If you pay by SEPA direct debit, AWS provides you with your invoice and initiates the charge to your payment method either the following day or the invoice due date, whichever is latest. It can take up to 5 business days for the payment to complete successfully, even if the payment shows as Succeeded in the Billing and Cost Management console.
You can use the Payment Methods page of the Billing and Cost Management console to perform the following SEPA direct debit tasks:
 Add a direct debit account to your AWS Europe payment methods
 Update your linked debit account
To add a direct debit account to your AWS Europe payment methods
You can use the Billing and Cost Management console to add a direct debit account to your AWS Europe payment methods. You can use any personal or business bank account, provided that the account is located at a branch in a SEPA-supported country. 
To add a SEPA direct debit account, you must have the following information ready:
 Bank Identifier Code (BIC)
 International Bank Account Number (IBAN)
 The address that the bank associates with the account


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Billing and Cost Management console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/.


In the navigation pane, choose Payment Methods.


Choose Add a bank account.


For Account Holder Name, enter the name of the principal account holder.


For BIC (Swift Code), enter the 8- or 11-digit number.


Routing numbers are always either 8 or 11 digits long. 


For Confirm BIC (Swift Code), reenter the BIC. Don't copy and paste.


For IBAN, enter the digits for the IBAN.


For Confirm IBAN, reenter the IBAN. Don't copy and paste.


For Make Default, select whether you want this direct debit account to be your default payment method.


For Billing Address Information, enter the billing address of the primary account holder.


Choose Create to agree to the Terms and Conditions and add your direct debit account.


To update your direct debit account
You can update the name, address, or phone number associated with your direct debit account.


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Billing and Cost Management console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/.


In the navigation pane, choose Payment Methods.


Next to the direct debit account that you want to edit, choose Edit.


Update the fields that you want to change.


At the bottom of the dialog box, choose Update.

