Compliance with Standards
AWS Secrets Manager has undergone auditing for the following standards and can be part of your solution when you need to obtain compliance certification.










AWS has expanded its Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) compliance program to include AWS Secrets Manager as a HIPAA-eligible service. If you have an executed Business Associate Agreement (BAA) with AWS, you can use Secrets Manager to help build your HIPAA-compliant applications. AWS offers a HIPAA-focused whitepaper for customers who are interested in learning more about how they can leverage AWS for the processing and storage of health information. For more information, see HIPAA Compliance.



AWS Secrets Manager has an Attestation of Compliance for Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard (DSS) version 3.2 at Service Provider Level 1. Customers who use AWS products and services to store, process, or transmit cardholder data can use AWS Secrets Manager as they manage their own PCI DSS compliance certification. For more information about PCI DSS, including how to request a copy of the AWS PCI Compliance Package, see PCI DSS Level 1.



AWS Secrets Manager has successfully completed compliance certification for ISO/IEC 27001, ISO/IEC 27017, ISO/IEC 27018, and ISO 9001. For more information, see ISO 27001, ISO 27017, ISO 27018, ISO 9001.



System and Organization Control (SOC) reports are independent third-party examination reports that demonstrate how Secrets Manager achieves key compliance controls and objectives. The purpose of these reports is to help you and your auditors understand the AWS controls that are established to support operations and compliance. For more information, see SOC Compliance.



The Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) is a government-wide program that provides a standardized approach to security assessment, authorization, and continuous monitoring for cloud products and services. The FedRAMP Program also provides provisional authorizations for services and regions for East/West and GovCloud to consume government or regulated data. For more information, see  FedRAMP Compliance.


