

Creating a Flow Configuration in the AWS IoT Things Graph console
These instructions are similar to the procedure for creating and deploying the flow in Creating a Flow with Devices and a Service. That topic contains complete instructions on setting up your environment, creating things, creating the flow (and the system), and associating things with devices. Because this is a cloud deployment, instead of creating and configuring a AWS IoT Greengrass group, follow the instructions in Prepare for Cloud Deployments to create the IAM role that AWS IoT Things Graph assumes when it executes the flow.

Create the flow configuration.

Select the menu icon at the upper left of the page, and then select Flows to return to the Flows page. On the Flows page, select the box next to the flow that you just created, and then choose Create flow configuration.


Name the flow configuration.

On the Describe flow configuration page, select your flow, and then enter a flow configuration name. The flow configuration name can't contain spaces. Choose Cloud, and then choose Next.


Configure the target.

On the Configure target page, enter the ARN of the role that you created in Prepare for Cloud Deployments. Choose Next. 


Select things for your deployment.

The Map Things page provides an interface for selecting the specific things that you'll include in your deployment. The menus under each device in your deployment contain all of the things that you associated with the device. Because you're getting started, the menus for each device on this page will include only one thing (the thing that you've associated with each device).
On the Map Things page, under the MotionSensor device, select the motion sensor thing that you created earlier. Select the camera and screen things for the Camera and Screen devices. Choose Next.


View the trigger.

On the Define trigger page, the GraphQL that defines the motion event trigger for the flow appears in the editor. When the motion sensor detects motion, the ThingsGraph.startFlow function initiates the flow. You don't need to edit this code.
Choose Review. 


Review and create.

On the Review and create page, review the information you entered for your flow configuration. Choose Create.


Deploy.

When the Flow configuration created message appears, choose Deploy now.

After a successful deployment, the Deployments page displays Deployed in target in the Status column.
