Setting the AWS Region
An AWS Region is a named set of AWS resources in the same geographical area. An example of a Region is us-east-1, which is the US East (N. Virginia) Region. You specify a Region when creating a service client in the SDK for JavaScript so that the SDK accesses the service in that Region. Some services are available only in specific Regions.
The SDK for JavaScript doesn't select a Region by default. However, you can set the Region using an environment variable, a shared config file, or the global configuration object.
In a Client Class Constructor
When you instantiate a service object, you can specify the Region for that resource as part of the client class constructor, as shown here.
const s3Client = new S3.S3Client({region: 'us-west-2'})
Using an Environment Variable
You can set the Region using the AWS_REGION environment variable. If you define this variable, the SDK for JavaScript reads it and uses it.
Using a Shared Config File
Much like the shared credentials file lets you store credentials for use by the SDK, you can keep your Region and other configuration settings in a shared file named config that is used by SDKs. If the AWS_SDK_LOAD_CONFIG environment variable has been set to a truthy value, the SDK for JavaScript automatically searches for a config file when it loads. Where you save the config file depends on your operating system:
 Linux, macOS, or Unix users: ~/.aws/config
 Windows users: C:\Users\USER_NAME\.aws\config
If you don't already have a shared config file, you can create one in the designated directory. In the following example, the config file sets both the Region and the output format.
[default]
   region=us-west-2
   output=json
For more information about using shared config and credentials files, see Loading Credentials in Node.js from the Shared Credentials File or Configuration and Credential Files in the AWS Command Line Interface User Guide.
Order of Precedence for Setting the Region
The order of precedence for Region setting is as follows:


If a Region is passed to a client class constructor, that Region is used.


Otherwise, if the AWS_REGION environment variable is a truthy value, that Region is used.


Otherwise, if the AMAZON_REGION environment variable is a truthy value, that Region is used.

