Getting started
The following topics outline the process of getting started with software products as a AWS Marketplace buyer.
Topics
 Step 1: Choose your software 
 Step 2: Sign in to AWS Marketplace
 Step 3: Launch your software on Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)
 Step 4: Manage your software
 Step 5: Terminate your instance
 Where to go next
 Buying products
 Launching software
 Software and services on AWS Marketplace
For information on getting started with data products, see Subscribing to Data Products on AWS Data Exchange in the AWS Data Exchange User Guide.
Step 1: Choose your software 
At AWS Marketplace, you will find five different categories of software: 
  Software Infrastructure 
  Developer Tools 
  Business Software 
  IoT 
  Desktop Apps 
Each major software category contains more specific subcategories of software. So, for example, the Software Infrastructure category contains subcategories such as Application Development, Databases & Caching, and Operating Systems. Software is available as either Amazon Machine Images (AMIs) or as Software as a Service (SaaS). For information on the differences AMIs and SaaS, see Product types. 
To aid you in choosing the software you need, AWS Marketplace provides the following information: 
  Seller details 
  Software version 
  Type of software (AMI or SaaS), and information about the AMI if applicable 
  Buyer rating 
  Price 
  Product information 
To choose your software


Navigate to AWS Marketplace. The Shop All Categories pane contains the list of categories you can choose from. You can also choose software featured in the middle pane. For this walkthrough, in the Shop All Categories pane, choose Content Management. 


From the Content Management list, choose BitNami WordPress. 


On the product details page, review the product information and choose Continue. The product details page includes additional information such as: 
     Buyer rating 
     Support offering 
     Highlights 
     Detailed product description 
     Pricing details for instance types in each Region (for AMIs) 
     Additional resources to help you get started 


Note
 If you chose a SaaS solution, choose Visit Site to get more information and to sign up. 
Step 2: Sign in to AWS Marketplace
After you complete step 1, you are directed to sign in to the AWS Marketplace. If you already have an AWS account, you can use that account to sign in. If you don't already have an AWS account, use the following procedure to create one. 
Note
 When you create an account, AWS automatically signs up the account for all AWS services. You are charged only for the services you use. 
To create an AWS account


From the Sign In or Create an Account page, choose Create a New Account. 


Follow the on-screen instructions. 


As part of the sign-in procedure, you will receive a phone call and enter a PIN using your phone keypad. 
Step 3: Launch your software on Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)
If you chose your software as an AMI, your next step is to launch an Amazon EC2 instance running the software product you've subscribed to.  Subscribing to a product means that you have accepted the terms of the product. If the product has a monthly fee, then upon subscription you will be charged the fee, which will be prorated based on the time remaining in the month. No other charges will be assessed until you launch an EC2 instance with the AMI you have chosen. 
Before you launch your Amazon EC2 instance, you need to decide if you want to launch with 1-Click Launch or if you want to launch using the Amazon EC2 console. 1-Click Launch helps you launch quickly with recommended default options such as security groups and instance types. With 1-Click Launch, you can also see your estimated monthly bill. If you prefer more options, such as launching in an Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) or using Spot Instances, then you should launch using EC2 console. The following procedures walk you through subscribing to the product and launching an EC2 instance using either 1-Click Launch or the EC2 Console. 
To launch on Amazon EC2 using 1-Click Launch


On the Launch on EC2 page, choose the 1-Click Launch view, and review the default settings. If you want to change any of them, do the following: 
     Expand Version, and select the AMI version you want. 
     Expand Region, and select the Region you want from the list. 
     Expand EC2 Instance Type, and choose an instance type. You will see the pricing information change under Pricing Details to match your selection. You can also review the Monthly Estimate in the right pane. 
    Expand Firewall Settings, and choose an existing security group, or choose Click new based on seller settings to accept the default settings. For more information about security groups, see Amazon EC2 Security Groups for Linux Instances in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances. 
    Expand Key Pair, and choose an existing key pair if you have one. If you do not have a key pair, you are prompted to create one. For more information about Amazon EC2 key pairs, see Amazon EC2 Key Pairs.


When you are satisfied with your settings, choose Accept Terms & Launch with 1-Click. 


To launch on Amazon EC2 Using Launch with EC2 Console


On the Launch on EC2 page, choose the Launch with EC2 Console view, and then select an AMI version from the Select a Version list. 


Review the Firewall Settings, Installation Instructions, and Release Notes, and then choose Launch with EC2 Console. 


In the EC2 console, you will launch your AMI using the Request Instance Wizard. Follow the instructions in Getting Started with Amazon EC2 Linux Instances to navigate through the wizard. 


Step 4: Manage your software
At any time, you can manage your software subscriptions in the AWS Marketplace by using the Your Software page. On the Your Software Subscriptions page, you can do the following: 
  View your instance status by product 
  View your current monthly charges 
  Run a new instance 
  View seller profiles for your instance 
  Link to the AWS Management Console to manage your instances 
  Link directly to your Amazon EC2 instance so you can configure your software 
To manage your software


Navigate to AWS Marketplace, and choose Your Software. 


Use the Your Software page to manage your software subscriptions. 


Step 5: Terminate your instance
When you've decided that you no longer need the instance, you can terminate it. 
Note
 You cannot restart a terminated instance. However, you can launch additional instances of the same AMI. 
To terminate an instance


Navigate to AWS Marketplace, and choose Your Software. 


On the Your Software page, next to the instance you want to terminate, choose Manage in AWS Console. 


In the AWS Management Console, open the EC2 console, right-click the instance, and then choose Terminate. 


Choose Yes, Terminate when prompted for confirmation. 


Where to go next
For more information about product categories and types, see Product categories and Product types. 
For more information about Amazon EC2, see the service documentation at Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud Documentation. 
To learn more about AWS, see https://aws.amazon.com/. 