Working with Active Directory in Amazon FSx for Windows File Server
Amazon FSx works with Microsoft Active Directory (AD) to integrate with your existing Microsoft Windows environments. Active Directory is the Microsoft directory service used to store information about objects on the network and make this information easy for administrators and users to find and use. These objects typically include shared resources such as file servers and network user and computer accounts. 
When you create a file system with Amazon FSx, you join it to your Active Directory domain to provide user authentication and file- and folder-level access control. Your users can then use their existing user identities in Active Directory to authenticate themselves and access the Amazon FSx file system. Users can also use their existing identities to control access to individual files and folders. In addition, you can migrate your existing files and folders and these items' security access control list (ACL) configuration to Amazon FSx without any modifications. 
Amazon FSx provides you with two options for using your Amazon FSx for Windows File Server file system with Active Directory: Using Amazon FSx with AWS Directory Service for Microsoft Active Directory and Using Amazon FSx with Your Self-Managed Microsoft Active Directory. 
Note
Amazon FSx supports Microsoft Azure Active Directory Domain Services, which you can join to a Microsoft Azure Active Directory.
After you create a joined Active Directory configuration for a file system, you can't change that configuration. However, you can create a new file system from a backup and change the Active Directory integration configuration for that file system. This way, you can also change other settings like the maintenance window. For more information, see Walkthrough 2: Create a File System from a Backup. 
Note
Amazon FSx does not support Active Directory Connector and Simple Active Directory.
Topics
 Using Amazon FSx with AWS Directory Service for Microsoft Active Directory
 Using Amazon FSx with Your Self-Managed Microsoft Active Directory
 Validating Your Active Directory Configuration