Quotas
Following, you can find out about quotas when working with Amazon FSx for Windows File Server.
Topics
 Quotas That You Can Increase
 Resource Quotas for Each File System
 Additional Considerations
 Quotas Specific to Microsoft Windows
Quotas That You Can Increase
Following are the quotas for Amazon FSx for Windows File Server for each AWS account, per AWS Region, that you can increase by contacting AWS Support.




Resource
Default Limit
Can Be Increased Up To




Number of file systems
100
Thousands


Total SSD storage for all file systems
512 TiB
Multiple PiBs


Total HDD storage for all file systems
512 TiB
Multiple PiBs


Total throughput capacity for all file systems
10 GBps
Hundreds of GBps


Total number of user-initiated backups for all file system
500
Thousands



To request a quota increase


Open the AWS Support Center page, sign in if necessary, and then choose Create case.


For Create case, choose Account and billing support.


In the Case details panel make the following entries:
    For Type choose Account.
    For Category choose Other Account Issues.
    For Subject enter Amazon FSx for Windows File Server service limit increase request.
    Provide a detailed Description of your request, including:

The FSx quota that you want increased, and the value you want it increased to, if known.
The reason why you are seeking the quota increase.
The file system id and region for each file system you are requesting an increase for.



Provide your preferred Contact options and choose Submit.


Resource Quotas for Each File System
Following are the quotas on Amazon FSx for Windows File Server resources for each file system in an AWS Region. 




Resource
Limit per file system




Number of tags
50


Minimum storage capacity, SSD file systems
32 GiB


Minimum storage capacity, HDD file systems
2,000 GiB


Maximum storage capacity, SSD and HDD
64 TiB


Minimum throughput capacity
8 MBps


Maximum throughput capacity
2,048 MBps


Maximum number of file shares
100,000


Retention period for automated backups
35 days



For information on throughput capacity, see Amazon FSx for Windows File Server PerformancePerformance.
Additional Considerations
In addition, note the following:
 You can use each AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) key on up to 125 Amazon FSx file systems.
 For a list of AWS Regions where you can create file systems, see Amazon FSx Endpoints and Quotas in the AWS General Reference.
 You map your file shares from Amazon EC2 instances in your virtual private cloud (VPC) with their Domain Name Service (DNS) names. You can also map your file share on your EC2-Classic instances (which are not in a VPC), but you must link them to your VPC by using ClassicLink. For more information about using ClassicLink, see ClassicLink in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances.
Quotas Specific to Microsoft Windows
For more information, see NTFS limits on the Microsoft Windows Dev Center.