AWS Shell Script task
Synopsis
Run a shell script using Bash with AWS credentials.
Description
Runs a shell script in Bash, setting AWS credentials and Region information into the shell environment using the standard environment keys AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID, AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY, AWS_SESSION_TOKEN and AWS_REGION.
Parameters
You can set the following parameters for the task. Required parameters are noted by an asterisk (*). Other parameters are optional.
Display name*
The default name of the task instance, which can be modified: AWS Shell Script
AWS Credentials
Specifies the AWS credentials to be used by the task in the build agent environment.
You can specify credentials using a service endpoint (of type AWS) in the task configuration or you can leave unspecified. If unspecified the task will attempt to obtain credentials from the following sources in order:
 From task variables named AWS.AccessKeyID, AWS.SecretAccessKey and optionally AWS.SessionToken.
 From credentials set in environment variables in the build agent process. When using environment variables in the build agent process you may use the standard AWS environment variables: AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID, AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY and optionally AWS_SESSION_TOKEN.
 If the build agent is running on an Amazon EC2 instance, from the instance metadata associated with the EC2 instance. For credentials to be available from EC2 instance metadata the instance must have been started with an instance profile referencing a role granting permissions to the task to make calls to AWS on your behalf. For more information, see Using an IAM role to grant permissions to applications running on Amazon EC2 instances.
AWS Region
The AWS Region code (us-east-1, us-west-2 etc.) of the Region containing the AWS resources the task will use or create. For more information, see Regions and endpoints in the Amazon Web Services General Reference.
If a Region is not specified in the task configuration, the task will attempt to obtain the Region to be used using the standard AWS environment variable AWS_REGION in the build agent process's environment. Tasks running in build agents hosted on Amazon EC2 instances (Windows or Linux) will also attempt to obtain the Region using the instance metadata associated with the EC2 instance if no Region is configured on the task or set in the environment variable.
Note: The Regions listed in the picker are those known at the time this software was released. New Regions that are not listed can still be used by entering the Region code of the Region (for example, us_west_2).
Arguments
The arguments to be passed to the shell script.
Script Source
The source of the script to run in the shell. Choose Script file to enter the file path to the script to be run or Inline script to specify the source code for the script in the task configuration.
Script Path
When Script Source is set to Script file, specifies the file path to the script to execute. This must be a fully qualified path or a path relative to the $(System.DefaultWorkingDirectory) location. The script file must exist.
Inline Script
The source code of the script to run when Script Source is set to Inline script. A maximum of 5000 characters is allowed.
Specify Working Directory
If selected a custom working directory, which must exist, can be specified for the script. The default behavior when unchecked is to set the working directory for the shell to be the script file location.
Working Directory
If Specify Working Directory is checked, contains the custom working directory for the script.
Fail on Standard Error
If this option is selected, the task will fail if any errors are written to the standard error stream.
Task Permissions
Permissions for this task to call AWS service APIs depend on the activities in the supplied script.