AWS Auto Scaling Resources
The following related resources can help you as you work with this service.
 AWS Auto Scaling – The primary web page for information about AWS Auto Scaling.
 AWS Auto Scaling FAQ – The answers to questions customers ask about AWS Auto Scaling.
 AWS Auto Scaling Discussion Forum – Get help from the community.
 Tagging Auto Scaling Groups and Instances – Get information about tagging your Auto Scaling groups.
 Tagging for DynamoDB – Get information about tagging your Amazon DynamoDB tables or global secondary indexes.
 Tagging Amazon RDS Resources – Get information about tagging your Aurora DB clusters.
 Working with Tag Editor – Get information about using Tag Editor, including which resources Tag Editor supports.
 Target Tracking Scaling Policies for Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling – Get information about target tracking scaling policies for Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling groups.
 Target Tracking Scaling Policies  for all other resources – Get information about target tracking scaling policies for resources beyond Amazon EC2, such as DynamoDB indexes and tables and Amazon ECS services. 
 AWS Auto Scaling API and CLI Reference Guides – Documentation for the API calls and the AWS CLI commands that you can use to create, modify, and delete Auto Scaling plans.
 Logging API Calls with CloudTrail – Get information about monitoring calls made to the API for your account, including calls made by the AWS Management Console, command line tools, and other services. 
The following additional resources are available to help you learn more about AWS.
  Classes & Workshops – Links to role-based and specialty courses as well as self-paced labs to help sharpen your AWS skills and gain practical experience.
  AWS Developer Tools – Links to developer tools, SDKs, IDE toolkits, and command line tools for developing and managing AWS applications.
  AWS Whitepapers – Links to a comprehensive list of technical AWS whitepapers, covering topics such as architecture, security, and economics and authored by AWS Solutions Architects or other technical experts.
  AWS Support Center – The hub for creating and managing your AWS Support cases. Also includes links to other helpful resources, such as forums, technical FAQs, service health status, and AWS Trusted Advisor.
  AWS Support – The primary web page for information about AWS Support, a one-on-one, fast-response support channel to help you build and run applications in the cloud.
  Contact Us – A central contact point for inquiries concerning AWS billing, account, events, abuse, and other issues. 
  AWS Site Terms – Detailed information about our copyright and trademark; your account, license, and site access; and other topics.