Use Peer Node Metrics
You can use peer node metrics to track the activity and health of peer nodes that belong to your Amazon Managed Blockchain member. You can use the Managed Blockchain console to view the metrics for a peer node. Managed Blockchain also reports metrics to Amazon CloudWatch. You can use CloudWatch to set up dashboards, receive alarms, and view log files for peer node metrics. For more information, see Using Amazon CloudWatch Metrics in the Amazon CloudWatch User Guide.
In addition to using peer node metrics, you optionally can enable CloudWatch Logs for peer nodes and for instances of chaincode running on a peer node. These logs are useful for troubleshooting and analysis of chaincode activity. For more information, see Monitoring Blockchain Activity Using CloudWatch Logs.
Managed Blockchain collects the following metrics for each peer node in the aws/managedblockchain namespace.



Metric
Description




Channel metrics



Transactions
The number of transactions that a peer node receives per minute. Units: Count


Utilization metrics



CPUUtilization(%)
The percentage of total CPU capacity used on the peer node's Managed Blockchain instance at any given instant. Units: Percent


MemoryUtilization(%)
The percentage of total available memory used on the peer node's Managed Blockchain instance at any given instant. Units: Percent



Viewing Peer Node Metrics
You can use the Amazon Managed Blockchain console to view graphs for peer node metrics. Metrics are available on the peer node details page.
To view metrics using the Managed Blockchain console


Open the Managed Blockchain console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/managedblockchain/.


Under Network, choose the Name of the network.


Choose Members. Under Members owned by you, choose the Name of the member to which the node belongs.


Under Peer Nodes, choose the Node ID you want to view.


Under Metrics, tabs for Channel Metrics and Utilization Metrics are available.


For Channel Metrics, choose the channels you want to view or compare from the list.


Choose a chart and then use Statistics, Time Range, and Period to customize the chart.


