Use Live Data
You can choose whether your metric widgets display live data. Live data is data published within the last minute that has not been fully aggregated.
 If live data is turned off, only data points with an aggregation period of at least one minute in the past are shown. For example, when using 5-minute periods, the data point for 12:35 would be aggregated from 12:35 to 12:40, and displayed at 12:41.
 If live data is turned on, the most recent data point is shown as soon as any data is published in the corresponding aggregation interval. Each time you refresh the display, the most recent data point may change as new data within that aggregation period is published. If you use a cumulative statistic such as Sum or Sample Count, using live data may result in a dip at the end of your graph.
You can choose to enable live data for a whole dashboard, or for individual widgets on the dashboard.
To choose whether to use live data on your entire dashboard


Open the CloudWatch console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/.


In the navigation pane, choose Dashboards and select a dashboard.


To permanently turn on or off live data for all widgets on the dashboard, do the following:


Choose Actions, Settings, Bulk update live data.


Choose Live Data on or Live Data off, and choose Set.


To temporarily override the live data settings of each widget, do this: choose Actions, then under Overrides, next to Live data, do one of the following:
    Choose On to temporarily turn on live data for all widgets. 
    Choose Off to temporarily turn off live data for all widgets.
    Choose Do not override to preserve each widget's live data setting.


To choose whether to use live data on a single widget


Open the CloudWatch console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/.


In the navigation pane, choose Dashboards and select a dashboard.


Select a widget, and choose Actions, Edit.


Choose the Graph options tab.


Select or clear the check box under Live Data.

