Getting set up with IAM
AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) helps you securely control access to Amazon Web Services (AWS) and your account resources. IAM can also keep your account credentials private. With IAM, you can create multiple IAM users under the umbrella of your AWS account or enable temporary access through identity federation with your corporate directory. In some cases, you can also enable access to resources across AWS accounts.
Without IAM, however, you must either create multiple AWS accounts—each with its own billing and subscriptions to AWS products—or your employees must share the security credentials of a single AWS account. In addition, without IAM, you cannot control the tasks a particular user or system can do and what AWS resources they might use. 
This guide provides a conceptual overview of IAM, describes business use cases, and explains AWS permissions and policies.
Topics
 Using IAM to give users access to your AWS resources
 Do I need to sign up for IAM?
 Additional resources
Using IAM to give users access to your AWS resources
Here are the ways you can use IAM to control access to your AWS resources.
Do I need to sign up for IAM?
If you don't already have an AWS account, you need to create one to use IAM. You don't need to specifically sign up to use IAM. There is no charge to use IAM. 
Note
IAM works only with AWS products that are integrated with IAM. For a list of services that support IAM, see AWS services that work with IAM. 
To sign up for AWS


Open https://portal.aws.amazon.com/billing/signup.


Follow the online instructions.


Part of the sign-up procedure involves receiving a phone call and entering a verification code on the phone keypad.
Additional resources
Here are some resources to help you get things done with IAM.
 Manage your AWS account credentials: AWS Security Credentials in the AWS General Reference
 Get started with and learn more about What is IAM?
 Set up a command line interface (CLI) to use with IAM. For the cross-platform AWS CLI, see the  AWS Command Line Interface Documentation and IAM CLI reference. You can also manage IAM with Windows PowerShell; see the  AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell Documentation and IAM Windows PowerShell reference.
 Download an AWS SDK for convenient programmatic access to IAM: Tools for Amazon Web Services
 Get the FAQ: AWS Identity and Access Management FAQ
 Get technical support: AWS Support Center
 Get premium technical support: AWS Premium Support Center
 Find definitions of AWS terms:  Amazon Web Services Glossary 
 Get community support: IAM Discussion Forums
 Contact AWS: Contact Us