How an IAM user changes their own password
If you have been granted permission to change your own IAM user password, you can use a special page in the AWS Management Console to do this. You can also use the AWS CLI or AWS API.
Topics
 Permissions required
 How IAM users change their own password (console)
 How IAM users change their own password (AWS CLI or AWS API)
Permissions required
To change the password for your own IAM user, you must have the permissions from the following policy: AWS: Allows IAM users to change their own console password on the my security credentials page.
How IAM users change their own password (console)
The following procedure describes how IAM users can use the AWS Management Console to change their own password.
To change your own IAM user password (console)

Use your AWS account ID or account alias, your IAM user name, and your password to sign in to the IAM console.
Note
For your convenience, the AWS sign-in page uses a browser cookie to remember your IAM user name and account information. If you previously signed in as a different user, choose Sign in to a different account near the bottom of the page to return to the main sign-in page. From there, you can type your AWS account ID or account alias to be redirected to the IAM user sign-in page for your account.

To get your AWS account ID, contact your administrator.


In the navigation bar on the upper right, choose your user name, and then choose My Security Credentials. 



On the AWS IAM Credentials tab, choose Change password.


For Current password, enter your current password. Enter a new password for New password and Confirm new password. Then choose Change password.
Note
If the account has a password policy, the new password must meet the requirements of that policy. For more information, see Setting an account password policy for IAM users. 


How IAM users change their own password (AWS CLI or AWS API)
The following procedure describes how IAM users can use the AWS CLI or AWS API to change their own password.
To change your own IAM password, use the following:
 AWS CLI: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/iam/change-password.html
 AWS API: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_ChangePassword.html