Checking MFA status
Use the IAM console to check whether an AWS account root user or IAM user has a valid MFA device enabled.
To check the MFA status of a root user


Sign in to the AWS Management Console with your root user credentials and then open the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/. 


Check under Security Status to see whether MFA is enabled or disabled. If MFA has not been activated, an alert symbol () is displayed next to Activate MFA on your root user. 


If you want to enable MFA for the account, see one of the following:
 Enable a virtual MFA device for your AWS account root user (console)
 Enable a U2F security key for the AWS account root user (console)
 Enable a hardware MFA device for the AWS account root user (console)
To check the MFA status of IAM users


Open the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/. 


In the navigation pane, choose Users.


If necessary, add the MFA column to the users table by completing the following steps:


Above the table on the far right, choose the settings icon ().


In Manage Columns, select MFA.


(Optional) Clear the check box for any column headings that you do not want to appear in the users table.


Choose Close to return to the list of users.


The MFA column tells you about the MFA device that is enabled. If no MFA device is active for the user, the console displays Not enabled. If the user has an MFA device enabled, the MFA column shows the type of device that is enabled with a value of Virtual, U2F Security Key, Hardware, or SMS.


To view additional information about the MFA device for a user, choose the name of the user whose MFA status you want to check. Then choose the Security credentials tab. 


If no MFA device is active for the user, the console displays No next to Assigned MFA device. If the user has an MFA device enabled, the Assigned MFA device item shows a value for the device:
    The device serial number of a hardware device (usually the number from the back of the device), such as GAHT12345678
    The ARN in AWS for an SMS device, such as arn:aws:iam::123456789012:sms-mfa/username
    The ARN in AWS for a virtual device, such as arn:aws:iam::123456789012:mfa/username


If you want to change the current setting, choose Manage next to Assigned MFA Device.
For more information on enabling MFA, see the following: 
 Enabling a virtual multi-factor authentication (MFA) device (console)
 Enabling a U2F security key (console)
 Enabling a hardware MFA device (console)
 PREVIEW – Enabling SMS text message MFA devices