Deactivating MFA devices
If you have having trouble signing in with a multi-factor authentication (MFA) device as an IAM user, contact your administrator for help. 
As an administrator, you can deactivate the device for another IAM user. This allows the user to sign in without using MFA. You might do this as a temporary solution while the MFA device is replaced, or if the device is temporarily unavailable. However, we recommend that you enable a new device for the user as soon as possible. To learn how to enable a new MFA device, see Enabling MFA devices for users in AWS.
Note
If you use the API or AWS CLI to delete a user from your AWS account, you must deactivate or delete the user's MFA device. You make this change as part of the process of removing the user. For more information about deleting users, see Managing IAM users.
Topics
 Deactivating MFA devices (console)
 Deactivating MFA devices (AWS CLI)
 Deactivating MFA devices (AWS API)
Deactivating MFA devices (console)
To deactivate an MFA device for another IAM user (console)


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/.


In the navigation pane, choose Users.


To deactivate the MFA device for a user, choose the name of the user whose MFA you want to remove.


Choose the Security credentials tab. Next to Assigned MFA device, choose Manage.


In the Manage MFA device wizard, choose Deactivate MFA device, and then choose Continue.


The device is removed from AWS. It cannot be used to sign in or authenticate requests until it is reactivated and associated with an AWS user or AWS account root user.
To deactivate the MFA device for your AWS account root user (console)


Sign in to the IAM console as the account owner by choosing Root user and entering your AWS account email address. On the next page, enter your password.
Note
If you see three text boxes, then you previously signed in to the console with IAM user credentials. Your browser might remember this preference and open this account-specific sign-in page every time that you try to sign in. You cannot use the IAM user sign-in page to sign in as the account owner. If you see the IAM user sign-in page, choose Sign in using root user email near the bottom of the page. This returns you to the main sign-in page. From there, you can sign in as the root user using your AWS account email address and password.


On the right side of the navigation bar, choose on your account name, and then choose My Security Credentials. If necessary, choose Continue to Security Credentials.



Expand the Multi-factor authentication (MFA) section.


In the row for the MFA device that you want to deactivate, choose Deactivate.


The MFA device is deactivated for the AWS account. Check the email that is associated with your AWS account for a confirmation message from Amazon Web Services. The email informs you that your Amazon Web Services multi-factor authentication (MFA) has been deactivated. The message will come from an address ending in @amazon.com or @aws.amazon.com.
Deactivating MFA devices (AWS CLI)
To deactivate an MFA device for an IAM user (AWS CLI)
 Run this command: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/iam/deactivate-mfa-device.html
Deactivating MFA devices (AWS API)
To deactivate an MFA device for an IAM user (AWS API)
 Call this operation: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_DeactivateMFADevice.html