Actions, resources, and condition keys for AWS Marketplace Procurement Systems Integration
AWS Marketplace Procurement Systems Integration (service prefix: aws-marketplace) provides the following service-specific resources, actions, and condition context keys for use in IAM permission policies.
References:
 Learn how to configure this service.
 View a list of the API operations available for this service.
 Learn how to secure this service and its resources by using IAM permission policies.
Topics
 Actions defined by AWS Marketplace Procurement Systems Integration
 Resource types defined by AWS Marketplace Procurement Systems Integration
 Condition keys for AWS Marketplace Procurement Systems Integration
Actions defined by AWS Marketplace Procurement Systems Integration
You can specify the following actions in the Action element of an IAM policy statement. Use policies to grant permissions to perform an operation in AWS. When you use an action in a policy, you usually allow or deny access to the API operation or CLI command with the same name. However, in some cases, a single action controls access to more than one operation. Alternatively, some operations require several different actions.
The Resource types column indicates whether each action supports resource-level permissions. If there is no value for this column, you must specify all resources ("*") in the Resource element of your policy statement. If the column includes a resource type, then you can specify an ARN of that type in a statement with that action. Required resources are indicated in the table with an asterisk (*). If you specify a resource-level permission ARN in a statement using this action, then it must be of this type. Some actions support multiple resource types. If the resource type is optional (not indicated as required), then you can choose to use one but not the other.
For details about the columns in the following table, see The actions table.




Actions
Description
Access level
Resource types (*required)
Condition keys
Dependent actions




 DescribeProcurementSystemConfiguration  [permission only]
Describes the Procurement System integration configuration (e.g. Coupa) for the individual account, or for the entire AWS Organization if one exists. This action can only be performed by the master account if using an AWS Organization.
Read





 PutProcurementSystemConfiguration  [permission only]
Creates or updates the Procurement System integration configuration (e.g. Coupa) for the individual account, or for the entire AWS Organization if one exists. This action can only be performed by the master account if using an AWS Organization.
Write






Resource types defined by AWS Marketplace Procurement Systems Integration
AWS Marketplace Procurement Systems Integration does not support specifying a resource ARN in the Resource element of an IAM policy statement. To allow access to AWS Marketplace Procurement Systems Integration, specify “Resource”: “*” in your policy.
Condition keys for AWS Marketplace Procurement Systems Integration
Marketplace Procurement Integration has no service-specific context keys that can be used in the Condition element of policy statements. For the list of the global context keys that are available to all services, see Available keys for conditions.