Calling the IAM API using HTTP query requests
Topics
 Endpoints
 HTTPS required
 Signing IAM API requests
You can access the IAM and AWS STS services programmatically using the Query API. Query API requests are HTTPS requests that must contain an Action parameter to indicate the action to be performed. IAM and AWS STS support GET and POST requests for all actions. That is, the API does not require you to use GET for some actions and POST for others. However, GET requests are subject to the limitation size of a URL; although this limit is browser dependent, a typical limit is 2048 bytes. Therefore, for Query API requests that require larger sizes, you must use a POST request.
The response is an XML document. For details about the response, see the individual action pages in the IAM API Reference or the AWS Security Token Service API Reference.
Tip
Instead of making direct calls to the IAM or AWS STS API operations, you can use one of the AWS SDKs. The AWS SDKs consist of libraries and sample code for various programming languages and platforms (Java, Ruby, .NET, iOS, Android, etc.). The SDKs provide a convenient way to create programmatic access to IAM and AWS. For example, the SDKs take care of tasks such as cryptographically signing requests (see below), managing errors, and retrying requests automatically. For information about the AWS SDKs, including how to download and install them, see the Tools for Amazon Web Services page. 
For details about the API actions and errors, see the IAM API Reference or the AWS Security Token Service API Reference. 
Endpoints
IAM and AWS STS each have a single global endpoint:
 (IAM) https://iam.amazonaws.com
 (AWS STS) https://sts.amazonaws.com
Note
AWS STS also supports sending requests to regional endpoints in addition to the global endpoint. Before you can use AWS STS in a Region, you must first activate STS in that Region for your AWS account. For more information about activating additional Regions for AWS STS, see Managing AWS STS in an AWS Region.
For more information about AWS endpoints and Regions for all services, see Service endpoints and quotas in the AWS General Reference.
HTTPS required
Because the Query API returns sensitive information such as security credentials, you must use HTTPS with all API requests. 
Signing IAM API requests
Requests must be signed using an access key ID and a secret access key. We strongly recommend that you do not use your AWS account root user credentials for everyday work with IAM. You can use the credentials for an IAM user or you can use AWS STS to generate temporary security credentials.
To sign your API requests, we recommend using AWS Signature Version 4. For information about using Signature Version 4, go to Signature Version 4 Signing Process in the AWS General Reference. 
If you need to use Signature Version 2, information about using Signature Version 2 is available in the AWS General Reference.
For more information, see the following:
  AWS Security Credentials. Provides general information about the types of credentials used for accessing AWS. 
 Security best practices in IAM. Presents a list of suggestions for using IAM service to help secure your AWS resources. 
 Temporary security credentials in IAM. Describes how to create and use temporary security credentials. 