IAM Tutorial: Delegate access to the billing console
AWS account owners can delegate access to specific IAM users who need to view or manage the AWS Billing and Cost Management data for an AWS account. The instructions that follow will help you set up a pretested scenario. This scenario helps you gain hands-on experience configuring billing permissions without concern for affecting your main AWS production account. If you attach a managed policy to your IAM users instead of following this tutorial, you must first activate access to the AWS Billing and Cost Management console in Step 1. 
This workflow has four basic steps. 

Step 1: Activate access to billing data on your AWS test account
If you create a single AWS account, only the AWS account owner (AWS account root user) has access to view and manage billing information. IAM users cannot access billing data until the account owner activates IAM access and also attaches policies that provide billing actions to the user or role. To view additional tasks that require you to sign in as the root user, see AWS Tasks that Require Account Root User.
If you create a member account using AWS Organizations, this feature is enabled by default.
Step 2: Create IAM policies that grant permissions to billing data
After enabling billing access on your account, you must still explicitly grant access to billing data to specific IAM users or groups. You grant this access with a customer managed policy.
Step 3: Attach billing policies to your groups
When you attach a policy to a group, all members of that group receive the complete set of access permissions that are associated with that policy. In this scenario, you attach the new billing policies to groups containing only those users who require the billing access.
Step 4: Test access to the billing console
After you've completed the core tasks, you're ready to test the policy. Testing ensures that the policy works the way you want it to.
Prerequisites
Create a test AWS account to use with this tutorial. In this account create two test users and two test groups as summarized in the following table. Be sure to assign a password to each user so that you can sign in later in Step 4.



Create user accounts
Create and configure group accounts
User name
Group name
Add user as a member




FinanceManager
BillingFullAccessGroup
FinanceManager




FinanceUser
BillingViewAccessGroup
FinanceUser





Step 1: Activate access to billing data on your AWS test account
First, activate billing access for your test users. To do this, see Activating Access to the Billing and Cost Management Console in the AWS Billing and Cost Management User Guide.
Note
If you create a member account using AWS Organizations, this feature is enabled by default.
Step 2: Create IAM policies that grant permissions to billing data
Next, create custom policies that grant both view and full access permissions to the pages within the Billing and Cost Management console. For general information about IAM permissions policies, see Managed Policies and Inline Policies.
To create IAM policies that grant permissions to billing data


Sign in to the AWS Management Console as a user with administrator credentials. To adhere to IAM best practices, don't sign in with your root user credentials. For more information, see Create individual IAM users.


Open the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/.


In the navigation pane, choose Policies, and then choose Create policy.


On the Visual editor tab, choose Choose a service to get started. Then choose Billing.


Follow these steps to create two policies:


Full access


Choose Select actions and then select the check box next to All Actions (*). You do not need to select a resource or condition for this policy.


Choose Review policy.


On the Review page, next to Name, type BillingFullAccess, and then choose Create policy to save it.


Read-only access


Repeat steps 3 and 4.


Choose Select actions and then select the check box next to Read. You do not need to select a resource or condition for this policy.


Choose Review policy.


On the Review page, for Name, type BillingViewAccess. Then choose Create policy to save it.


To review descriptions for each of the permissions available in IAM policies that grant users access to the Billing and Cost Management console, see Billing Permissions Descriptions.
Step 3: Attach billing policies to your groups
Now that you have custom billing policies available, you can attach them to their corresponding groups that you created earlier. Although you can attach a policy directly to a user or role, we recommend (in accordance with IAM best practices) that you use groups instead. For more information, see Use groups to assign permissions to IAM users. 
To attach billing policies to your groups

In the navigation pane, choose Policies to display the full list of policies available to your AWS account. To attach each policy to its appropriate group, follow these steps:

Full access


In the policy search box, type BillingFullAccess, and then select the check box next to the policy name. 


Choose Policy actions, and then choose Attach.


In the identity (user, group, and role) search box, type BillingFullAccessGroup, select the check box next to the name of the group, and then choose Attach policy.


Read-only access


In the policy search box, type BillingViewAccess, and then select the check box next to the policy name.


Choose Policy actions, and then choose Attach.


In the identity (user, group, and role) search box, type BillingViewAccessGroup, select the check box next to the name of the group, and then choose Attach policy.


Sign out of the console, and then proceed to Step 4: Test access to the billing console.


Step 4: Test access to the billing console
We recommend that you test access by signing in as each of the test users to learn what your users might experience. Use the following steps to sign in using both test accounts to see the difference between access rights.
To test billing access by signing in with both test user accounts


Use your AWS account ID or account alias, your IAM user name, and your password to sign in to the IAM console.
Note
For your convenience, the AWS sign-in page uses a browser cookie to remember your IAM user name and account information. If you previously signed in as a different user, choose Sign in to a different account near the bottom of the page to return to the main sign-in page. From there, you can type your AWS account ID or account alias to be redirected to the IAM user sign-in page for your account.


Sign in with each account using the steps provided below so you can compare the different user experiences.


Full access


Sign in to your AWS account as the user FinanceManager.


On the navigation bar, choose FinanceManager@ , and then choose My Billing Dashboard.


Browse through the pages and choose the various buttons to ensure that you have full modify permissions. 


Read-only access


Sign in to your AWS account as the user FinanceUser.


On the navigation bar, choose FinanceUser@, and then choose My Billing Dashboard.


Browse through the pages. Notice that you can display costs, reports, and billing data with no problems. However, if you choose an option to modify a value, you receive an Access Denied message. For example, on the Preferences page, choose any of the check boxes on the page, and then choose Save preferences. The console message informs you that you need ModifyBilling permissions to make changes to that page.


Related resources
For related information found in the AWS Billing and Cost Management User Guide, see the following resources:
 Activating Access to the Billing and Cost Management Console 
 Example 4: Allow full access to AWS services but deny IAM users access to the Billing and Cost Management console.
 Billing Permissions Descriptions
For related information in the IAM User Guide, see the following resources:
 Managed policies and inline policies
 Controlling user access to the AWS Management Console
 Attaching a policy to an IAM group
Summary
You've now successfully completed all of the steps necessary to delegate user access to the Billing and Cost Management console. As a result, you've seen firsthand what your users billing console experience will be like. You can now proceed to implement this logic in your production environment at your convenience. 