Tagging Amazon Forecast Resources
A tag is a label that you optionally define and associate with AWS resources, including certain types of Amazon Forecast resources. Tags can help you categorize and manage resources in different ways, such as by purpose, owner, environment, or other criteria. For example, you can use tags to apply policies or automation, or to identify resources that are subject to certain compliance requirements. You can add tags to the following types of Forecast resources: 
 Dataset groups
 Datasets
 Dataset import jobs
 Predictors
 Forecasts
 Forecast export jobs
A resource can have as many as 50 tags.
Managing Tags
Each tag consists of a required tag key and an optional tag value, both of which you define. A tag key is a general label that acts as a category for more specific tag values. A tag value acts as a descriptor for a tag key. For example, if you have two versions of a Forecast dataset import job (one for internal testing and another for production), you might assign an Environment tag key to both projects. The value of the Environment tag key might be Test for one version of the dataset import job and Production for the other version.
A tag key can contain as many as 128 characters. A tag value can contain as many as 256 characters. The characters can be Unicode letters, numbers, white space, or one of the following symbols: _ . : / =  -. The following additional restrictions apply to tags:
 Tag keys and values are case sensitive.
 For each associated resource, each tag key must be unique and it can have only one value.
 Do not use aws:, AWS:, or any upper or lowercase combination of such as a prefix for keys, because it is reserved for AWS use. You cannot edit or delete tag keys with this prefix. Values can have this prefix. If a tag value has aws as its prefix but the key does not, then Forecast considers it to be a user tag and will count against the limit of 50 tags. Tags with only the key prefix of aws do not count against your tags per resource limit.
 You can't update or delete a resource based only on its tags. You must also specify the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) or resource ID, depending on the operation that you use.
 You can associate tags with public or shared resources. However, the tags are available only for your AWS account, not any other accounts that share the resource. In addition, the tags are available only for resources that are located in the specified AWS Region for your AWS account.
To add, display, update, and remove tag keys and values from Forecast resources, you can use the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI), the Forecast API, or an AWS SDK.
Using Tags in IAM Policies
After you start implementing tags, you can apply tag-based, resource-level permissions to AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) policies and API operations. This includes operations that support adding tags to resources when resources are created. By using tags in this way, you can implement granular control of which groups and users in your AWS account have permission to create and tag resources, and which groups and users have permission to create, update, and remove tags more generally.
For example, you can create a policy that allows a user to have full access to all of the Forecast resources where their name is a value in the Owner tag for the resource.
{
   "Version": "2012-10-17",
   "Statement": [
      {
         "Sid": "ModifyResourceIfOwner",
         "Effect": "Allow",
         "Action": "forecast:*",
         "Resource": "*",
         "Condition": {
            "StringEqualsIgnoreCase": {
               "aws:ResourceTag/Owner": "${aws:username}"
            }
         }
      }
   ]
}
The following example shows how to create a policy to allow creating and deleting a dataset. These operations are allowed only if the user name is johndoe.
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "forecast:CreateDataset",
                "forecast:DeleteDataset"
            ],
            "Resource": "arn:aws:forecast:*:*:dataset/*",
            "Condition": {
                "StringEquals": {"aws:username" : "johndoe"}
            }
        },
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "forecast:DescribeDataset",
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
If you define tag-based, resource-level permissions, the permissions take effect immediately. This means that your resources are more secure as soon as they're created, and you can quickly start enforcing the use of tags for new resources. You can also use resource-level permissions to control which tag keys and values can be associated with new and existing resources. For more information, see Controlling Access Using Tags in the AWS IAM User Guide.
Adding Tags to Resources
The following examples show how to add a tag to Forecast resources by using the AWS CLI and the AWS Management Console.

[ AWS CLI ]
To create a new resource and add a tag to it by using the AWS CLI, use the appropriate create command for the resource. Include the tags parameter and values. For example, the following command creates a new dataset named myDataSet and adds an Environment tag key with a Test tag value to the dataset. In this example, the schema is defined in a file called schema.json in the same directory where you are running the command.
C:\> aws forecast create-dataset --dataset-name=myDataSet --dataset-type=RELATED_TIME_SERIES --domain=RETAIL --schema=file://schema.json --tags={Environment=Test}
For information about the commands that you can use to create a Forecast resource, see the Forecast AWS CLI Command Reference.
To add a tag to an existing resource, use the tag-resource command and specify the appropriate values for the required parameters:
C:\> aws forecast tag-resource --resource-arn resource-arn --tags-model tags={key=value}
Where:
 resource-arn is the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the resource that you want to add a tag to.
 key is the tag key that you want to add to the resource. The key argument is required.
 value is the optional tag value that you want to add for the specified tag key (key). The value argument is required. If you don’t want the resource to have a specific tag value, don’t specify a value for the value argument. Forecast sets the value to an empty string.

[ AWS Management Console ]
When you create a resource in Forecast, you can add optional tags. The following example adds a tag to a dataset group.
To add tags to a new dataset group


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon Forecast console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/forecast/.


Choose Create dataset group.


For Dataset group name, enter a name.


For Forecasting domain, choose a domain.


Choose Add new tag.


For Key and Value, enter appropriate values.


For example, Environment and Test, respectively.

To add more tags, choose Add new tag.

You can add up to 50 tags to a resource.

Choose Next to continue creating your resource.


Additional Information
For more information about tagging, see the following resources.
 AWS Tagging Principles in the AWS General Reference
 AWS Tagging Strategies (downloadable PDF)
 AWS Access Control in the AWS IAM User Guide
 AWS Tagging Policies in the AWS Organizations User Guide