Getting Started with the Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels SDK
Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels provides an API that you can use to create Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels projects, train and evaluate models, run models, and analyze images using your model. 
For information about the general flow of creating and using a model, see Getting Started with Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels.
Note
The Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels API is documented as part of the Amazon Rekognition API reference content. For more information, see Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels API Reference.
Creating a Project
To create a model with the API, use CreateProject. For more information, see Creating an Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels Project (SDK). After you create a project, you need to create or add a dataset by using the Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels console. For more information, see Creating an Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels Dataset.
Creating a Dataset
A dataset contains the images, labels, and bounding box information that you use to train a model. Alternatively, you can use an Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth manifest file to train a model. The Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels API doesn't create datasets, import images, or label images. To do these tasks, you need to use the Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels console or provide your own Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth format manifest file. An option for creating a manifest file is to create an Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth labeling job. For more information, see Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth.
Dataset files are stored in an Amazon S3 bucket. If you aren't using a dataset that was created in the Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels console, you need to add permissions to your bucket or buckets so that Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels can access the bucket contents. For more information, see Step 4: Set Up Amazon S3 Bucket Permissions for SDK Use.
For more information about the workflow for creating and managing a dataset, see Managing a Dataset.
Training and Evaluating a Model
You can use the Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels APIs to train and evaluate a model.
Training a model
You train an Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels model by calling CreateProjectVersion. A new version of a model is created each time it is trained. CreateProjectVersion requires a training dataset and a testing dataset. 
If you choose, you can create a testing dataset by splitting your training dataset in an 80 (training)/20 (testing) split. When a model is trained, its performance is evaluated and the results placed in an S3 bucket. You can choose to place the training results in the same bucket as the console S3 bucket, or a different S3 bucket that you choose. For more information, see Training a Model (SDK). 
You are charged for the amount of time that it takes to train a model. For more information, see Training hours. 
Evaluating a model
To evaluate a model, you call DescribeProjectVersions to get the training results. The training results include metrics that aren't available in the console, such as a confusion matrix for classification results. The training results are returned in the following formats: 
 F1 score – A single value representing the overall performance of precision and recall for the model. For more information, see Overall Model Performance.
 Summary file location – The training summary includes aggregated evaluation metrics for the entire testing dataset and metrics for each individual label. DescribeProjectVersions returns the S3 bucket and folder location of the summary file. For more information, see Summary File.
 Evaluation manifest snapshot location – The snapshot contains detailed information about the test results including the confidence ratings and the results of binary classification tests, such as false positives. DescribeProjectVersions returns the S3 bucket and folder location of the snapshot files. For more information, see Evaluation Manifest Snapshot. 
For more information about evaluating a model, see Evaluating a Trained Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels Model.
Running and Using a Model
Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels provides an API that you use, with your model, to detect custom labels in images. The model must be running before you can detect custom labels. 
Running a model
When your model is ready to use, you start it by calling StartProjectVersion. For more information, see Starting an Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels Model (SDK). You are charged for the amount of time, in minutes, that the model is running. For more information, see Inference hours. To stop a running model, call StopProjectVersion. For more information, see Stopping an Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels Model (SDK). 
Analyzing images
To analyze new images with your running model, you call DetectCustomLabels. This operation takes an input image from either an Amazon S3 bucket or from a local file system. It also requires the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the model that you want to use. The response includes predictions for the presence of custom labels in the input image. A custom label has an associated confidence score that tells you the model's confidence in the accuracy of the prediction. Object location information for objects detected in the image is also returned. For more information, see Analyzing an Image with a Trained Model. 