Step 1: Prepare Your On-Premises Domain
First you need to complete several prerequisite steps on your on-premises domain.
Configure Your On-Premises Firewall
You must configure your on-premises firewall so that the following ports are open to the CIDRs for all subnets used by the VPC that contains your AWS Managed Microsoft AD. In this tutorial, we allow both incoming and outgoing traffic from 10.0.0.0/16 (the CIDR block of our AWS Managed Microsoft AD's VPC) on the following ports:
 TCP/UDP 53 - DNS
 TCP/UDP 88 - Kerberos authentication
 TCP/UDP 389 - LDAP
 TCP 445 - SMB
Note
SMBv1 is no longer supported.
Note
These are the minimum ports that are needed to connect the VPC to the on-premises directory. Your specific configuration may require additional ports be open.
Ensure That Kerberos Pre-authentication Is Enabled
User accounts in both directories must have Kerberos preauthentication enabled. This is the default, but let's check the properties of any random user to make sure nothing has changed.
To view user Kerberos settings


On your on-premises domain controller, open Server Manager.


On the Tools menu, choose Active Directory Users and Computers.


Choose the Users folder and open the context (right-click) menu. Select any random user account listed in the right pane. Choose Properties. 


Choose the Account tab. In the Account options list, scroll down and ensure that Do not require Kerberos preauthentication is not checked. 



Configure DNS Conditional Forwarders for Your On-premises Domain
You must set up DNS conditional forwarders on each domain. Before doing this on your on-premises domain, you will first get some information about your AWS Managed Microsoft AD.
To configure conditional forwarders on your on-premises domain


Sign into the AWS Management Console and open the AWS Directory Service console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/directoryservicev2/.


In the navigation pane, select Directories.


Choose the directory ID of your AWS Managed Microsoft AD.


On the Details page, take note of the values in Directory name and the DNS address of your directory.


Now, return to your on-premises domain controller. Open Server Manager.


On the Tools menu, choose DNS.


In the console tree, expand the DNS server of the domain for which you are setting up the trust. Our server is WIN-5V70CN7VJ0.corp.example.com.


In the console tree, choose Conditional Forwarders.


On the Action menu, choose New conditional forwarder. 


In DNS domain, type the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of your AWS Managed Microsoft AD, which you noted earlier. In this example, the FQDN is MyManagedAD.example.com.


Choose IP addresses of the master servers and type the DNS addresses of your AWS Managed Microsoft AD directory, which you noted earlier. In this example those are: 10.0.10.246, 10.0.20.121


After entering the DNS addresses, you might get a "timeout" or "unable to resolve" error. You can generally ignore these errors.



Select Store this conditional forwarder in Active Directory, and replicate it as follows.


Select All DNS servers in this domain, and then choose OK.


Next Step
Step 2: Prepare Your AWS Managed Microsoft AD