Step 2: Share Your Directory
Use the following procedures to begin the directory sharing workflow from within the directory owner account. 
To share your directory from the directory owner account


Sign into the AWS Management Console with administrator credentials in the directory owner account and open the AWS Directory Service console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/directoryservicev2/.


In the navigation pane, choose Directories.


Choose the directory ID of the AWS Managed Microsoft AD directory that you want to share.


On the Directory details page, choose the Scale & share tab.


In the Shared directories section, choose Actions, and then choose Create new shared directory.


On the Choose which AWS accounts to share with page, choose one of the following sharing methods depending on your business needs:


Share this directory with AWS accounts inside your organization – With this option you can select the AWS accounts you want to share your directory with from a list showing all the AWS accounts inside your AWS organization. You must enable trusted access with AWS Directory Service before you share a directory. For more information, see How to Enable or Disable Trusted Access.
Note
To use this option, your organization must have All features enabled, and your directory must be in the organization master account.


Under AWS accounts in your organization, select the AWS accounts that you want to share the directory with and click Add. 


Review the pricing details, and then choose Share.


Proceed to Step 4 in this guide. Because all AWS accounts are in the same organization, you do not need to follow Step 3.




Share this directory with other AWS accounts - With this option, you can share a directory with accounts inside or outside your AWS organization. You can also use this option when your directory is not a member of an AWS organization and you want to share with another AWS account.


In AWS account ID(s), enter all the AWS account IDs that you want to share the directory with, and then click Add.


In Send a note, type a message to the administrator in the other AWS account. 


Review the pricing details, and then choose Share.


Proceed to Step 3. 




Next Step
Step 3: Accept Shared Directory Invite (Optional)