
Take the survey!
Help us improve the AWS SDK for .NET and its documentation by sharing your experience. Click here to take a quick survey.

Using Amazon Simple Storage Service Internet storage
The AWS SDK for .NET supports Amazon S3, which is storage for the Internet. It is designed to make web-scale computing easier for developers.
APIs
The AWS SDK for .NET provides APIs for Amazon S3 clients. The APIs enable you to work with Amazon S3 resources such as buckets and items. To view the full set of APIs for Amazon S3, see the following:
 AWS SDK for .NET API Reference (and scroll to "Amazon.S3").
 Amazon.Extensions.S3.Encryption documentation
The Amazon S3 APIs are provided by the following NuGet packages:
 AWSSDK.S3
 Amazon.Extensions.S3.Encryption
Prerequisites
Before you begin, be sure you have set up your environment. Also review the information in Setting up your project and SDK features.
Examples in this document
The following topics in this document show you how to use the AWS SDK for .NET to work with Amazon S3.
 Using KMS keys for S3 encryption
Examples in other documents
The following links to the Amazon S3 Developer Guide provide additional examples of how to use the AWS SDK for .NET to work with Amazon S3.
Note
Although these examples and additional programming considerations were created for Version 3 of the AWS SDK for .NET using .NET Framework, they are also viable for later versions of the AWS SDK for .NET using .NET Core. Small adjustments in the code are sometimes necessary.
Amazon S3 programming examples
  Managing ACLs 
  Creating a Bucket 
  Upload an Object 
  Multipart Upload with the High-Level API ([Amazon.S3.Transfer.TransferUtility](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkfornet/v3/apidocs/items/S3/TTransferUtility.html)) 
  Multipart Upload with the Low-Level API 
  Listing Objects 
  Listing Keys 
  Get an Object 
  Copy an Object 
  Copy an Object with the Multipart Upload API 
  Deleting an Object 
  Deleting Multiple Objects 
  Restore an Object 
  Configure a Bucket for Notifications 
  Manage an Object’s Lifecycle 
  Generate a Pre-signed Object URL 
  Managing Websites 
  Enabling Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) 
Additional programming considerations
  Using the AWS SDK for .NET for Amazon S3 Programming 
  Making Requests Using IAM User Temporary Credentials 
  Making Requests Using Federated User Temporary Credentials 
  Specifying Server-Side Encryption 
  Specifying Server-Side Encryption with Customer-Provided Encryption Keys 