
Take the survey!
Help us improve the AWS SDK for .NET and its documentation by sharing your experience. Click here to take a quick survey.

What is the AWS SDK for .NET
The AWS SDK for .NET makes it easier to build .NET applications that tap into cost-effective, scalable, and reliable AWS services such as Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) and Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2). The SDK simplifies the use of AWS services by providing a set of libraries that are consistent and familiar for .NET developers.

(OK, got it! I'm ready for a tutorial or to start setting up.)
About this version
Note
This documentation is for version 3.5 and later of the AWS SDK for .NET. It's mostly centered around .NET Core and ASP.NET Core. In addition to Windows and Visual Studio, it gives equal consideration to cross-platform development.
Documentation for version 3.0 of the SDK, which is mostly centered around .NET Framework and ASP.NET 4.x, Windows, and Visual Studio, can be found at https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-net/v3/developer-guide/
For information about migrating, see Migrating your project.
Maintenance and support
For information about maintenance and support for SDK major versions and their underlying dependencies see the following in the AWS SDKs and Tools Shared Configuration and Credentials Reference Guide:
 AWS SDKs and Tools Maintenance Policy
 AWS SDKs and Tools Version Support Matrix
Common use cases
The AWS SDK for .NET helps you realize several compelling use cases, including the following:
 Manage users and roles with AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM).
 Access Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) to create buckets and store objects.
 Manage Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) HTTP subscriptions to topics.
 Use the S3 transfer utility to transfer files to Amazon S3 from your Xamarin applications.
 Use Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) to process messages and workflows between components in a system.
 Perform efficient Amazon S3 transfers by sending SQL statements to Amazon S3 Select.
 Create and launch Amazon EC2 instances, and configure and request Amazon EC2 spot instances.
Additional topics in this section

AWS tools related to the AWS SDK for .NET
Additional resources
