Step 11 (Optional): Clean Up
To prevent incurring additional charges to your AWS account, you can delete the app and the AWS resources that were used for this walkthrough, including the instance and the AWS OpsWorks Stacks stack. (For more information, see AWS OpsWorks Pricing.) However, you might want to keep using these AWS resources as you continue to learn more about AWS OpsWorks Stacks. If you want to keep these AWS resources available, you have now completed this walkthrough, and you can skip to Next Steps.
Content stored in the resources that you created for this walkthrough can contain personally-identifying information. If you no longer want this information to be stored by AWS, follow steps in this topic.
To delete the app from the stack


In the service navigation pane, choose Apps. The Apps page displays.


For Node.js Sample App, for Actions, choose delete. When you see the confirmation message, choose Delete. When the app is deleted, you see the No apps message.


To delete the instance for the stack


In the service navigation pane, choose Instances. The Instances page displays.


For Node.js App Server, for nodejs-server1, for Actions, choose stop. When you see the confirmation message, choose Stop.


This process can take a few minutes. When AWS OpsWorks Stacks is finished, the following results are shown.


For Actions, choose delete. When you see the confirmation message, choose Delete. The instance is deleted, and the No instances message is displayed.

To delete the stack


In the service navigation pane, choose Stack. The My Sample Stack (Linux) page is displayed.


Choose Delete Stack. When you see the confirmation message, choose Delete. The stack is deleted, and the OpsWorks Dashboard page is displayed.


Optionally, you can delete the IAM user and Amazon EC2 key pair that you used for this walkthrough, if you don't want to reuse them for access to other AWS services and EC2 instances. For instructions, see Deleting an IAM User and Deleting Your Key Pair.
You have now completed this walkthrough. For more information, see Next Steps.