Adding Nodes Automatically in AWS OpsWorks for Chef Automate
This topic describes how to add Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) nodes to your Chef server automatically. In Add Nodes for the Chef Server to Manage, you learned how to use the https://docs.chef.io/install_bootstrap.html#knife-bootstrap command to add one node at a time to your Chef server. The code in the Starter Kit shows how to add nodes automatically using the unattended method. The recommended method of unattended (or automatic) association of new nodes is to configure the Chef Client Cookbook. You can use the userdata script in the Starter Kit, and change either the run_list section of the userdata script, or your Policyfile.rb with the cookbooks you want to apply to your nodes. Before you run the chef-client agent, install the Chef Client cookbook on your Chef server, and then install the chef-client agent in service mode with, for example, an HTTPD role, as shown in the following sample command. 
chef-client -r "chef-client,role[httpd]"
To communicate with the Chef server, the chef-client agent software must have access to the public key of the client node. You can generate a public-private key pair in Amazon EC2, and then pass the public key to the AWS OpsWorks associate-node API call with the node name. The script included in the Starter Kit gathers your organization name, server name, and server endpoint for you. This ensures that the node is associated with the Chef server, and the chef-client agent software that runs on the node can communicate with the server after matching the private key.
The minimum supported version of chef-client on nodes associated with an AWS OpsWorks for Chef Automate server is 13.x. We recommend running the most current, stable chef-client version.
For information about how to disassociate a node, see Disassociate a Node from an AWS OpsWorks for Chef Automate Server in this guide, and http://docs.aws.amazon.com/opsworks-cm/latest/APIReference/API_DisassociateNode.html in the AWS OpsWorks for Chef Automate API documentation.
Supported Operating Systems
For the current list of supported operating systems for nodes, see the Chef website.
Step 1: Create an IAM Role to Use as Your Instance Profile
Create an AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) role to use as your EC2 instance profile, and attach the following policy to the IAM role. This policy allows the AWS OpsWorks for Chef Automate (opsworks-cm) API to communicate with the EC2 instance during node registration. For more information about instance profiles, see Using Instance Profiles in the Amazon EC2 documentation. For information about how to create an IAM role, see Creating an IAM Role in the Console in the Amazon EC2 documentation.
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Action": [
                "opsworks-cm:AssociateNode",
                "opsworks-cm:DescribeNodeAssociationStatus",
            ],
            "Resource": "*",
            "Effect": "Allow"
        }
    ]
}
AWS OpsWorks provides an AWS CloudFormation template that you can use to create the IAM role with the preceding policy statement. The following AWS CLI command creates the instance profile role for you by using this template. You can omit the --region parameter if you want to create the new AWS CloudFormation stack in your default region.
aws cloudformation --region region ID create-stack --stack-name myChefAutomateinstanceprofile --template-url https://s3.amazonaws.com/opsworks-cm-us-east-1-prod-default-assets/misc/opsworks-cm-nodes-roles.yaml --capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM
Step 2: Install the Chef Client Cookbook
If you have not done so already, follow the steps in (Alternate) Use Berkshelf to Get Cookbooks from a Remote Source to ensure that your Berksfile or Policyfile.rb file references the Chef Client cookbook and installs the cookbook.
Step 3: Create Instances by Using an Unattended Association Script

To create EC2 instances, you can copy userdata script from the Starter Kit to the userdata section of EC2 instance instructions, Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group launch configurations, or an AWS CloudFormation template. For more information about adding scripts to user data, see Running Commands on Your Linux Instance at Launch in the Amazon EC2 documentation.

This script runs the opsworks-cm API http://docs.aws.amazon.com/opsworks-cm/latest/APIReference/API_AssociateNode.html command to associate a new node with your Chef server.
By default, the name of the new registered node is the instance ID, but you can change the name by modifying the value of the NODE_NAME variable. Because changing the organization name in the Chef console UI is currently not possible, leave CHEF_ORGANIZATION set to default.


Follow the procedure in Launching an Instance in the EC2 documentation, with modifications here. In the EC2 instance launch wizard, choose an Amazon Linux AMI.


On the Configure Instance Details page, select the role you created in Step 1: Create an IAM Role to Use as Your Instance Profile, as your IAM role.


In the Advanced Details area, upload the userdata.sh script that you created earlier in this procedure.


No changes are needed on the Add Storage page. Go on to Add Tags.


On the Configure Security Group page, choose Add Rule, and then choose the type HTTP to open port numbers 443 and 80 for the Apache web server in this example.


Choose Review and Launch, and then choose Launch. When your new node starts, it applies the configurations specified by the recipes you have specified in the RUN_LIST parameter.


Optional: If you have added the nginx cookbook to your run list, when you open the webpage linked to the public DNS of your new node, you should see a website that is hosted by your nginx web server.


Other Methods of Automating Repeated Runs of chef-client
Although more difficult to achieve, and not recommended, you can run the script in this topic solely as part of standalone instance user data, use a AWS CloudFormation template to add it to new instance user data, configure a cron job to run the script regularly, or run chef-client within a service. However, we recommend the Chef Client Cookbook method because there are some disadvantages with other automation techniques.
For a complete list of parameters you can provide to chef-client, see the Chef documentation.
Related Topics
The following AWS blog posts offer more information about automatically associating nodes with your Chef Automate server, by using Auto Scaling groups, or within multiple accounts.
 Using AWS OpsWorks for Chef Automate to Manage EC2 Instances with Auto Scaling
 OpsWorks for Chef Automate – Automatically Bootstrapping Nodes in Different Accounts