Step 3: Upload app code to an Amazon S3 bucket
Because you must provide a link to your code repository as part of pipeline setup, have the code repository ready before you create your pipeline. In this walkthrough, you upload a Node.js app to an Amazon S3 bucket.
Although CodePipeline can use code directly from GitHub or CodeCommit as sources, this walkthrough demonstrates how to use an Amazon S3 bucket. In this walkthrough, you upload the sample Node.js app to your own Amazon S3 bucket, so you can make changes to the app. The Amazon S3 bucket that you create in this step enables CodePipeline to detect changes to the app code and deploy the changed app automatically. If you wish, you can use an existing bucket. Be sure the bucket meets the criteria described in Simple Pipeline Walkthrough (Amazon S3 Bucket) in the CodePipeline documentation.
Important
The Amazon S3 bucket must be in the same region in which you will later create your pipeline. At this time, CodePipeline supports the AWS OpsWorks Stacks provider in the US East (N. Virginia) Region (us-east-1) only. All resources in this walkthrough should be created in the US East (N. Virginia) Region. The bucket must also be versioned because CodePipeline requires a versioned source. For more information, see Using Versioning.
To upload your app to an Amazon S3 bucket


Download the ZIP file of the AWS OpsWorks Stacks sample, Node.js app, and save it to a convenient location on your local computer.


Open the Amazon S3 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/.


Choose Create Bucket.


On the Create a Bucket - Select a Bucket Name and Region page, for Bucket Name, type a unique name for your bucket. Bucket names must be unique across all AWS accounts, not just in your own account. This walkthrough uses the name my-appbucket, but you can use my-appbucket-yearmonthday to make your bucket name unique. From the Region drop-down list, choose US Standard, and then choose Create. US Standard is equivalent to us-east-1.



Choose the bucket you created from the All Buckets list.


On the bucket page, choose Upload.


On the Upload - Select Files and Folders page, choose Add files. Browse for the ZIP file you saved in step 1, choose Open, and then choose Start Upload.



After the upload is complete, select the ZIP file from the list of files in your bucket, and then choose Properties.


In the Properties pane, copy the link to your ZIP file, and make a note of the link. You will need the bucket name and the ZIP file name portion of this link to create your pipeline.

