Deregistering Resources
If you no longer need to have a resource registered with a stack, you can deregister it. Deregistration does not delete the resource from your account; it remains there and can be registered with another stack or used outside AWS OpsWorks Stacks. If you want to delete the resource entirely, you have two options:
 If an Elastic IP or Amazon EBS resource is attached to an instance, you can delete the resource when you delete the instance.
Go to the Instances page, click delete in the instance's Actions column, and then select Delete instance's EBS volumes or Delete the instance's Elastic IP. 
 Deregister the resource and then use the Amazon EC2 or Amazon RDS console, API, or CLI to delete it.
Topics
 Deregistering Amazon EBS Volumes
 Deregistering Elastic IP Addresses
 Deregistering Amazon RDS Instances
Deregistering Amazon EBS Volumes
Use the following procedure to deregister an Amazon EBS volume.
To deregister an Amazon EBS volume


If the volume is attached to an instance, unassign it, as described in Unassigning Amazon EBS Volumes.


On the Resources page, click the volume name in the Name column.


On the volume's details page, click Deregister.



Deregistering Elastic IP Addresses
Use the following procedure to deregister an Elastic IP address.
To deregister an Elastic IP address


If the address is associated with an instance, disassociate it, as described in Disassociating Elastic IP Addresses.


On the Resources page, click Elastic IPs and then click the IP address in the Address column.


On the address's details page, click Deregister.



Note
If you simply want to register an Elastic IP address with a different stack, you must deregister it from its current stack and then register it with the new stack. However, you can move an attached Elastic IP address to an instance in another stack directly. For more information, see Attaching and Moving Resources.
Deregistering Amazon RDS Instances
Use the following procedure to deregister an Amazon RDS instance.
To deregister an Amazon RDS instance


If the instance is associated with an app, detach it, as described in Detaching Resources.


On the Resources page, click RDS and then instance's name.


On the instance's details page, click Deregister.


