About the AWS Support API
The AWS Support API provides access to some of the features of the AWS Service Catalog. AWS provides this access for AWS Support customers who have a Business or Enterprise support plan.
The service currently provides two different groups of operations:
 Support case management operations to manage the entire life cycle of your AWS support cases, from creating a case to resolving it.
 Trusted Advisor operations to access the checks provided by AWS Trusted Advisor.
For information about the operations and data types provided by AWS Support, see the AWS Support API Reference.
Topics
 Support case management
 Trusted Advisor
 Endpoint
 Support in AWS SDKs
Support case management
Using the operations for support case management, you can perform these tasks:
 Open a support case.
 Get a list and detailed information about recent support cases.
 Narrow your search for support cases by dates and case identifiers, including cases that are resolved.
 Add communications and file attachments to your cases, and add the email recipients for case correspondence.
 Resolve your cases.
The AWS Support API supports CloudTrail logging for support case management operations. For more information, see Logging AWS Support API calls with AWS CloudTrail.
For example Java code that demonstrates how to manage the entire life cycle of an AWS Support case, see Programming an AWS Support case. 
Trusted Advisor
Using the Trusted Advisor operations, you can perform these tasks:
 Get names and identifiers for the checks that Trusted Advisor offers.
 Request that a Trusted Advisor check be run against your account and resources. 
 Obtain summaries and detailed information for your Trusted Advisor checks.
 Request that Trusted Advisor checks be refreshed.
 Obtain the status of each Trusted Advisor check you have requested.
The AWS Support API supports CloudWatch Events for Trusted Advisor operations. For more information, see Monitoring Trusted Advisor check results with Amazon CloudWatch Events.
For an example that uses the Trusted Advisor operations, see Using Trusted Advisor as a web service.
Endpoint
Use this endpoint to access AWS Support:
 https://support.us-east-1.amazonaws.com
Warning
The AWS Support endpoint creates cases in the production database. Be sure that you include a subject line, such as TEST CASE--Please ignore, when you call [CreateCase](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awssupport/latest/APIReference/API_CreateCase.html) for testing, and close the test cases you create by calling [ResolveCase](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awssupport/latest/APIReference/API_ResolveCase.html).
For additional information about using AWS endpoints, see Regions and endpoints in the Amazon Web Services General Reference.
Support in AWS SDKs
The AWS Command Line Interface, the AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell, and the AWS Software Development Kits (SDKs) include support for the AWS Support API:
 AWS CLI
 AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell
 AWS SDK for Java
 AWS SDK for JavaScript
 AWS SDK for .NET
 AWS SDK for PHP
 AWS SDK for Python (Boto)
 AWS SDK for Ruby