Contacting AWS Support about domain registration issues
AWS provides a Basic support plan, free of charge, for all AWS customers. The plan includes assistance for the following issues related to domain registration:
 Transferring domains to or from Amazon Route 53
 Transferring domains between AWS accounts
 Increasing quotas on Route 53 entities, such as the number of domains that you can register (See Quotas.)
 Changing the owner of a domain
 Changing contact information for the owner of a domain
 Resending confirmation and authorization emails
 Renewing domains
 Restoring expired domains
 Getting information about Route 53 billing
 Providing proof of identity for .uk domains
 Deleting domains or disabling automatic renewal after you close your AWS account
To contact AWS Support about these and other issues related to domain registration, perform the applicable procedure.
Topics
 Contacting AWS Support when you can sign in to your AWS account
 Contacting AWS Support when you can't sign in to your AWS account
Contacting AWS Support when you can sign in to your AWS account
To contact AWS Support when you're able to sign in to your AWS account, perform the following procedure:


Using the AWS account that the domain is currently registered to, sign in to the AWS Support Center. 
Important
You must sign in by using the root account that the domain is currently registered to. This requirement prevents unauthorized users from hijacking your account.


Specify the following values:
Regarding
Accept the default value of Account and Billing Support.
Service
Accept the default value of Billing.
Category
Accept the default value of Domain name registration issue.
Severity
Choose the applicable severity.
Subject
Enter a brief summary of the issue.
Description
Describe the issue that you're having in more detail, and attach any relevant documents or screenshots.
Contact method
Choose a contact method, Web or Phone. If you choose Web, we'll contact you using the email address that's associated with your AWS account. If you choose Phone, enter the applicable values.


Choose Submit.


Contacting AWS Support when you can't sign in to your AWS account
To contact AWS Support when you can't sign in to your AWS account, perform the following procedure:


Go to the I'm an AWS customer and I'm looking for billing or account support page.


Fill out the form.


Choose Submit.

