Restoring an expired or deleted domain
If you don't renew a domain before the end of the late-renewal period or if you accidentally delete the domain, some registries for top-level domains (TLDs) allow you to restore the domain before it becomes available for others to register.
When a domain is deleted or it passes the end of the late-renewal period, it no longer appears in the Amazon Route 53 console. 
Important
The price for restoring a domain is typically higher and sometimes much higher than the price for registering or renewing a domain. For the current price for restoring a domain, see the "Restoration Price" column in Amazon Route 53 Pricing for Domain Registration.
You can't use AWS credits to pay the fee for restoring an expired domain.
To try to restore domain registration when a domain is deleted or the late-renewal period has expired


Determine whether the TLD registry for the domain supports restoring domains and, if so, the period during which restoration is allowed.


Go to Domains that you can register with Amazon Route 53.


Find the TLD for your domain, and review the values in the "Deadlines for renewing and restoring domains" section. 
Important
We forward restoration requests to Gandi, which processes the requests during business hours Monday through Friday. Gandi is based in Paris, where the time is UTC/GMT 1 hour. As a result, depending on when you submit your request, in rare cases it can take a week or more for a request to be processed.


Review the price for restoring a domain, which is often higher and sometimes much higher than the price for registering or renewing a domain. In Amazon Route 53 Pricing for Domain Registration, find the TLD for your domain (such as .com) and check the price in the "Restoration Price" column. If you still want to restore the domain, make note of the price; you'll need it in a later step.


Using the AWS account that the domain was registered to, sign in to the AWS Support Center. 


Specify the following values:
Regarding
Accept the default value of Account and Billing Support.
Service
Accept the default value of Billing.
Category
Accept the default value of Domain name registration issue.
Subject
Enter Restore an expired domain or Restore a deleted domain.
Description
Provide the following information:
    The domain that you want to restore
    The 12-digit account ID of the AWS account that the domain was registered to
    Confirmation that you agree to the price for restoring the domain. Use the following text:
"I agree to the price of $____ for restoring my domain."
Replace the blank with the price that you found in step 2.
Contact method
Specify a contact method and, if you choose Phone, enter the applicable values.


Choose Submit.


When we learn whether we were able to restore your domain, an AWS Support representative will contact you. In addition, if we were able to restore your domain, the domain will reappear in the console. The expiration date depends on whether the domain expired or was accidentally deleted:
The domain expired
The new expiration date is usually one or two years (depending on the TLD) after the old expiration date.
The new expiration date is not calculated from the date that the domain was restored.
The domain was accidentally deleted
The expiration date typically doesn't change.

