Amazon Transcribe Medical and interface VPC endpoints (AWS PrivateLink)
You can establish a private connection between your VPC and Amazon Transcribe Medical by creating an interface VPC endpoint. Interface endpoints are powered by AWS PrivateLink, a technology that enables you to privately access Amazon Transcribe Medical APIs without an internet gateway, NAT device, VPN connection, or AWS Direct Connect connection. Instances in your VPC don't need public IP addresses to communicate with Amazon Transcribe Medical APIs. Traffic between your VPC and Amazon Transcribe Medical does not leave the Amazon network. 
Each interface endpoint is represented by one or more Elastic Network Interfaces in your subnets. 
For more information, see Interface VPC endpoints (AWS PrivateLink) in the Amazon VPC User Guide. 
Considerations for Amazon Transcribe Medical VPC endpoints
Before you set up an interface VPC endpoint for Amazon Transcribe Medical, ensure that you review Interface endpoint properties and limitations in the Amazon VPC User Guide. 
Amazon Transcribe Medical supports making calls to all of its API actions from your VPC. 
Creating an interface VPC endpoint for Amazon Transcribe Medical Streaming
You can create a VPC endpoint for the Amazon Transcribe Medical service using either the Amazon VPC console or the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI). For more information, see Creating an interface endpoint in the Amazon VPC User Guide.
Create a VPC endpoint for Amazon Transcribe Medical using the following service name: 
 com.amazonaws.region.transcribestreaming 
If you enable private DNS for the endpoint, you can make API requests to Amazon Transcribe Medical using its default DNS name for the Region, for example, transcribestreaming.us-east-2.amazonaws.com. 
For more information, see Accessing a service through an interface endpoint in the Amazon VPC User Guide.
Creating a VPC endpoint policy for Amazon Transcribe Medical Streaming
You can attach an endpoint policy to your VPC endpoint that controls access to Amazon Transcribe Medical. The policy specifies the following information:
 The principal that can perform actions.
 The actions that can be performed.
 The resources on which actions can be performed.
For more information, see Controlling access to services with VPC endpoints in the Amazon VPC User Guide. 
Example: VPC endpoint policy for Amazon Transcribe Medical actions
The following is an example of an endpoint policy for Amazon Transcribe Medical. When attached to an endpoint, this policy grants access to the listed Amazon Transcribe Medical actions for all principals on all resources.
{
   "Statement":[
      {
         "Principal":"*",
         "Effect":"Allow",
         "Action":[
            "transcribe:StartMedicalStreamTranscription",
         ],
         "Resource":"*"
      }
   ]
}