Setting Up Your Hardware Appliance
After you receive your AWS Storage Gateway Hardware Appliance, you use the hardware appliance console to configure networking to provide an always-on connection to AWS and activate your appliance. Activation associates your appliance with the AWS account that is used during the activation process. After the appliance is activated, you can launch a file, volume, or tape gateway types in the Storage Gateway console.
To install and configure your hardware appliance


Rack-mount the appliance, and plug in power and network connections. For more information, see Rack-Mounting Your Hardware Appliance and Connecting It to Power.


Set the Internet Protocol version 4 (IPv4) addresses for both the hardware appliance (the host) and Storage Gateway (the service). For more information, see Configuring Network Parameters.


Activate the hardware appliance on the console Hardware page in the AWS Region of your choice. For more information, see Activating Your Hardware Appliance.


Install the Storage Gateway on your hardware appliance. For more information, see Configuring Your Gateway.


You set up gateways on your hardware appliance the same way that you set up gateways on VMware ESXi, Microsoft Hyper-V, Linux Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM), or Amazon EC2. 
Increasing the usable cache storage
You can increase the usable storage on the hardware appliance from 5 TB to 12 TB. Doing this provides a larger cache for low latency access to data in AWS. To increase the usable storage to 12 TB, you can buy five 1.92 TB SSDs (solid state drives), which are available on the Amazon website. You can then add them to the hardware appliance before you activate it. If you have already activated the hardware appliance and want to increase the usable storage on the appliance to 12 TB, do the following: 


Reset the hardware appliance to its factory settings. Contact AWS Support for instructions on how to do this.


Add five 1.92 TB SSDs to the appliance.


For instructions on how to do this, see Drives in the Dell EMCPowerEdgeR640 Installation and Service Manual.
Using a fiber optic network card instead of copper network card
The hardware appliance comes with a 10 gigabit copper network card. However, you can replace it with a 10 gigabit fiber optic network card that the hardware appliance supports. The specific fiber optic network card that the hardware appliance supports is the Dell Intel X710 Quad Port 10GB Da/SFP Network Daughter Card. You can buy it from the hardware appliance product page on the Amazon website. For instructions on how to install the card, see Network daughter card in the Dell EMCPowerEdgeR640 Installation and Service Manual.