Testing Your Setup by Using IBM Spectrum Protect
You can back up your data to virtual tapes, archive the tapes, and manage your virtual tape library (VTL) devices by using IBM Spectrum Protect. (IBM Spectrum Protect was formerly known as Tivoli Storage Manager.) In this topic, you can find basic documentation on how to configure the IBM Spectrum Protect version 7.x backup software for a tape gateway. You can also find basic documentation on performing backup and restore operations with IBM Spectrum Protect. For detailed information about how to use IBM Spectrum Protect backup software, see the IBM Spectrum Protect Administrator's Guide.
Note
The IBM Spectrum Protect backup software is supported on both Microsoft Windows and Linux.
Setting Up IBM Spectrum Protect
After you connect your VTL devices to your client, you configure the IBM Spectrum Protect version 7.x software to recognize them. For information about how to connect VTL devices to your client, see Connecting Your VTL Devices.
To set up IBM Spectrum Protect


Get a licensed copy of the IBM Spectrum Protect version 7.1.9 software from IBM.


Install the IBM Spectrum Protect software on your on-premises environment or in-cloud Amazon EC2 instance. For installation instruction, see the IBM Spectrum Protect Administrator's Guide. For additional installation guidance, see the IBM Spectrum Protect Tape Solution Guide.


Configuring IBM Spectrum Protect to Work with VTL Devices
Next, configure IBM Spectrum Protect to work with your VTL devices. You can configure IBM Spectrum Protect to work VTL devices on either Microsoft Windows or Linux.
Configuring IBM Spectrum Protect for Windows
For complete instructions on how to configure IBM Spectrum Protect on Windows, see Tape Device Driver-W12 6266 for Windows 2012 on the Lenovo website. Following is basic documentation on the process.
To configure IBM Spectrum Protect for Microsoft Windows


Get the correct driver package for your media changer. For the tape-device driver, IBM Spectrum Protect requires version W12 6266 for Windows 2012. For instructions on how to get the drivers, see Tape Device Driver-W12 6266 for Windows 2012 on the Lenovo website.
Note
Make sure that you install the "non-exclusive" set of drivers.


On your computer, open Computer Management, expand Media Changer devices, and verify that the media changer type is listed as IBM 3584 Tape Library.


Ensure that the barcode for any tape in the virtual tape library is eight characters or less. If you try to assign your tape a barcode that is longer than eight characters, you get this error message: "Tape barcode is too long for media changer".


Ensure that all your tape drives and media changer appear in IBM Spectrum Protect. To do so, use the following command: \Tivoli\TSM\server>tsmdlst.exe


Configure IBM Spectrum Protect for Linux
Following is basic documentation on configuring IBM Spectrum to work with VTL devices on Linux.
To configure IBM Spectrum Protect for Linux


Go to the IBM Fix Central on the IBM Support Website and choose Select product.


For Product Group, choose System Storage.


For Select from System Storage, choose Tape systems.


For Tape systems, choose Tape drivers and software.


For Select from Tape drivers and software, choose Tape device drivers.


For Platform, choose your operating system and choose Continue.


Choose the device driver version that you want to download. Then follow the instructions on the Fix Central download page to download and configure IBM Spectrum Protect.


Ensure that the barcode for any tape in the virtual tape library is eight characters or less. If you try to assign your tape a barcode that is longer than eight characters, you get this error message: "Tape barcode is too long for media changer".


Writing Data to a Tape in IBM Spectrum Protect
You write data to a tape gateway virtual tape by using the same procedure and backup policies that you do with physical tapes. Create the necessary configuration for backup and restore jobs. For detailed information, see the IBM Spectrum Protect Administrator's Guide.
Restoring Data from a Tape Archived in IBM Spectrum Protect
Restoring your archived data is a two-step process.
To restore data from an archived tape


Retrieve the archived tape from archive to a tape gateway. For instructions, see Retrieving Archived Tapes.


Restore the data by using the IBM Spectrum Protect backup software. You do this by creating a recovery point, as you do when restoring data from physical tapes. For instructions, see the IBM Spectrum Protect Administrator's Guide.


Next Step
Cleaning Up Resources You Don't Need