Importing key material step 1: Create an AWS KMS customer master key (CMK) with no key material
By default, AWS KMS creates key material for you when you create a customer master key (CMK). To instead import your own key material, start by creating a CMK with no key material. You distinguish between these two types of CMKs by the CMK's origin. When AWS KMS creates the key material for you, the CMK's origin is AWS_KMS. When you create a CMK with no key material, the CMK's origin is EXTERNAL, which indicates that the key material was generated outside of AWS KMS.
A CMK with no key material is in the pending import state and is not available for use. To use it, you must import key material as explained later. When you import key material, the CMK's key state changes to enabled. For more information about key state, see Key state: Effect on your CMK.
To create a CMK with no key material, you can use the AWS Management Console or the AWS KMS API. You can use the API directly by making HTTP requests, or through one of the AWS SDKs or command line tools.
AWS KMS records an entry in your AWS CloudTrail log when you create the CMK, download the public key and import token, and import the key material. AWS KMS also records an entry when you delete imported key material or when AWS KMS deletes expired key material.
 Creating a CMK with no key material (console)
 Creating a CMK with no key material (AWS KMS API)
Creating a CMK with no key material (console)
You can use the AWS Management Console to create a CMK with no key material. Before you do this, you can configure the console to show the Origin column in the list of CMKs. Imported keys have an Origin value of External.
You need to create a CMK for the imported key material only once. To reimport the same key material into an existing CMK, see Step 2: Download the public key and import token.


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/kms.


To change the AWS Region, use the Region selector in the upper-right corner of the page.


In the navigation pane, choose Customer managed keys.


Choose Create key.


Choose Symmetric. You cannot import key material into an asymmetric CMK.


Expand Advanced options.


For Key material origin, choose External. 


Then select the check box next to I understand the security, availability, and durability implications of using an imported key to indicate that you understand the implications of using imported key material. To read about these implications, see About imported key material.
Choose Next.

Type an alias and (optionally) a description for the CMK. 

Choose Next.

(Optional). On the Add tags page, add tags that identify or categorize your CMK. 

Choose Next.


In the Key administrators section, select the IAM users and roles who can manage the CMK. For more information, see Allows key administrators to administer the CMK. 
Note
IAM policies can give other IAM users and roles permission to manage the CMK.


(Optional) To prevent the selected IAM users and roles from deleting this CMK, in the Key deletion section at the bottom of the page, clear the Allow key administrators to delete this key check box.


Choose Next.


In the This account section, select the IAM users and roles in this AWS account who can use the CMK in cryptographic operations. For more information, see Allows key users to use the CMK.
Note
IAM policies can give other IAM users and roles permission to use the CMK.


(Optional) You can allow other AWS accounts to use this CMK for cryptographic operations. To do so, in the Other AWS accounts section at the bottom of the page, choose Add another AWS account and enter the AWS account identification number of an external account. To add multiple external accounts, repeat this step.
Note
To allow principals in the external accounts to use the CMK, Administrators of the external account must create IAM policies that provide these permissions. For more information, see Allowing users in other accounts to use a CMK.


Choose Next.

On the Review and edit key policy page, review and edit the policy document for the new CMK. When you're done, choose Finish .

If the operation succeeds, you have created a CMK with no key material. Its status is Pending import. To continue the process now, see Downloading the public key and import token (console). To continue the process later, choose Cancel.
Next: Step 2: Download the public key and import token.
Creating a CMK with no key material (AWS KMS API)
To use the AWS KMS API to create a symmetric CMK with no key material, send a CreateKey request with the Origin parameter set to EXTERNAL. The following example shows how to do this with the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI).
$ aws kms create-key --origin EXTERNAL
When the command is successful, you see output similar to the following. The CMK's Origin is EXTERNAL and its KeyState is PendingImport.
{
    "KeyMetadata": {
        "Origin": "EXTERNAL",
        "KeyId": "1234abcd-12ab-34cd-56ef-1234567890ab",
        "Description": "",
        "Enabled": false,
        "KeyUsage": "ENCRYPT_DECRYPT",
        "KeyState": "PendingImport",
        "CreationDate": 1568289600.0,
        "Arn": "arn:aws:kms:us-west-2:111122223333:key/1234abcd-12ab-34cd-56ef-1234567890ab",
        "AWSAccountId": "111122223333"
        "KeyManager": "CUSTOMER",
        "CustomerMasterKeySpec": "SYMMETRIC_DEFAULT",
        "EncryptionAlgorithms": [
            "SYMMETRIC_DEFAULT"
        ]
    }
}
Copy the CMK's key ID from your command output to use in later steps, and then proceed to Step 2: Download the public key and import token.