Changing a key policy
You can change the key policy for a customer master key (CMK) in your AWS account by using the AWS Management Console or the PutKeyPolicy operation. You cannot use these techniques to change the key policy of a CMK in a different AWS account.
When changing a key policy, keep in mind the following rules:
 You can view the key policy for an AWS managed CMK or a customer managed CMK, but you can only change the key policy for a customer managed CMK. The policies of AWS managed CMKs are created and managed by the AWS service that created the CMK in your account.
 You can add or remove IAM users, IAM roles, and AWS accounts (root users) in the key policy, and change the actions that are allowed or denied for those principals. For more information about the ways to specify principals and permissions in a key policy, see Using key policies.
 You cannot add IAM groups to a key policy, but you can add multiple IAM users. For more information, see Allowing multiple IAM users to access a CMK.
 If you add external AWS accounts to a key policy, you must also use IAM policies in the external accounts to give permissions to IAM users, groups, or roles in those accounts. For more information, see Allowing users in other accounts to use a CMK.
 The resulting key policy document cannot exceed 32 KB (32,768 bytes).
Topics
 How to change a key policy
 Allowing multiple IAM users to access a CMK
How to change a key policy
You can change a key policy in three different ways, each of which is explained in the following sections.
Topics
 Using the AWS Management Console default view
 Using the AWS Management Console policy view
 Using the AWS KMS API
Using the AWS Management Console default view
You can use the console to change a key policy with a graphical interface called the default view.
If the following steps don't match what you see in the console, it might mean that this key policy was not created by the console. Or it might mean that the key policy has been modified in a way that the console's default view does not support. In that case, follow the steps at Using the AWS Management Console policy view or Using the AWS KMS API.


View the key policy for a customer managed CMK as decribed in Viewing a key policy (console). (You cannot change the key policies of AWS managed keys.)


Decide what to change.
    To add or remove key administrators, and to allow or prevent key administrators from deleting the CMK, use the controls in the Key administrators section of the page. Key administrators manage the CMK, including enabling and disabling it, setting key policy, and enabling key rotation.
    To add or remove key users, and to allow or disallow external AWS accounts to use the CMK, use the controls in the Key users section of the page. Key users can use the CMK in cryptographic operations, such as encrypting, decrypting, re-encrypting, and generating data keys.


Using the AWS Management Console policy view
You can use the console to change a key policy document with the console's policy view.


View the key policy for a customer managed CMK as decribed in Viewing a key policy (console). (You cannot change the key policies of AWS managed keys.)


In the Key Policy section, choose Switch to policy view.


Edit the key policy document, and then choose Save changes.


Using the AWS KMS API
You can use the PutKeyPolicy operation to change the key policy of a CMK in your AWS account. You cannot use this API on a CMK in a different AWS account.


Use the GetKeyPolicy operation to get the existing key policy document, and then save the key policy document to a file. For sample code in multiple programming languages, see Getting a key policy.


Open the key policy document in your preferred text editor, edit the key policy document, and then save the file.


Use the PutKeyPolicy operation to apply the updated key policy document to the CMK. For sample code in multiple programming languages, see Setting a key policy.


For an example of copying a key policy from one CMK to another, see the GetKeyPolicy example in the AWS CLI Command Reference.
Allowing multiple IAM users to access a CMK
IAM groups are not valid principals in a key policy. To allow multiple IAM users to access a CMK, do one of the following:
 Add each IAM user to the key policy. This approach requires that you update the key policy each time the list of authorized users changes.
 Ensure that the key policy includes the statement that enables IAM policies to allow access to the CMK. Then create an IAM policy that allows access to the CMK, and then attach that policy to an IAM group that contains the authorized IAM users. Using this approach, you don't need to change any policies when the list of authorized users changes. Instead, you only need to add or remove those users from the appropriate IAM group.
For more information about how AWS KMS key policies and IAM policies work together, see Troubleshooting key access.