Compliance validation for AWS Key Management Service
Third-party auditors assess the security and compliance of AWS Key Management Service as part of multiple AWS compliance programs. These include SOC, PCI, FedRAMP, HIPPA, and others.
Topics
 Compliance and security documents
 Learn more
Compliance and security documents
The following compliance and security documents cover AWS KMS. To view them, use AWS Artifact.
 Cloud Computing Compliance Controls Catalogue (C5)
 ISO 27001:2013 Statement of Applicability (SoA)
 ISO 27001:2013 Certification
 ISO 27017:2015 Statement of Applicability (SoA)
 ISO 27017:2015 Certification
 ISO 27018:2015 Statement of Applicability (SoA)
 ISO 27018:2014 Certification
 ISO 9001:2015 Certification
 PCI DSS Attestation of Compliance (AOC) and Responsibility Summary
 Service Organization Controls (SOC) 1 Report
 Service Organization Controls (SOC) 2 Report
 Service Organization Controls (SOC) 2 Report For Confidentiality
 FedRAMP-High
For help using AWS Artifact, see Downloading Reports in AWS Artifact. 
Learn more
Your compliance responsibility when using AWS KMS is determined by the sensitivity of your data, your company's compliance objectives, and applicable laws and regulations. If your use of AWS KMS is subject to compliance with a published standard, AWS provides resources to help:
 AWS Services in Scope by Compliance Program – This page lists AWS services that are in scope of specific compliance programs. For general information, see AWS Compliance Programs.
 Security and Compliance Quick Start Guides – These deployment guides discuss architectural considerations and provide steps for deploying security- and compliance-focused baseline environments on AWS.
 AWS Compliance Resources – This collection of workbooks and guides might apply to your industry and location.
 AWS Config – This AWS service assesses how well your resource configurations comply with internal practices, industry guidelines, and regulations.
 AWS Security Hub – This AWS service provides a comprehensive view of your security state within AWS that helps you check your compliance with security industry standards and best practices.