Step 2: Create Your EC2 Resources and Launch Your EC2 Instance
Note
You can't use Amazon EFS with Microsoft Windows–based Amazon EC2 instances.
Before you can launch and connect to an Amazon EC2 instance, you need to create a key pair, unless you already have one. You can create a key pair using the Amazon EC2 console, and then you can launch your EC2 instance.
To create a key pair
 Follow the steps in Setting Up with Amazon EC2 in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances to create a key pair. If you already have a key pair, you don't need to create a new one. You can use your existing key pair for this exercise.
To launch the EC2 instance and mount an EFS file system


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


Choose Launch Instance.


In Step 1: Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI), find an Amazon Linux AMI at the top of the list and choose Select.


In Step 2: Choose an Instance Type, choose Next: Configure Instance Details.


In Step 3: Configure Instance Details, provide the following information: 
    For Network, choose the entry for the same VPC that you noted when you created your EFS file system in Step 1: Create Your Amazon EFS File System.
    For Subnet, choose a default subnet in any Availability Zone.
    For File systems, make sure that the EFS file system that you created in Step 1: Create Your Amazon EFS File System is selected. The path shown next to the file system ID is the mount point that the EC2 instance will use, which you can change. Choose Add to user data to mount the file system when the EC2 is launched.
    Under Advanced Details, confirm that the user data is present in User data.


Choose Next: Add Storage.


Choose Next: Add Tags.


Name your instance and choose Next: Configure Security Group.


In Step 6: Configure Security Group, set Assign a security group to Select an existing security group. Choose the default security group to make sure that it can access your EFS file system.


You can't access your EC2 instance by Secure Shell (SSH) using this security group. SSH access isn't required for this exercise. To add access by SSH later, you can edit the default security and add a rule to allow SSH. Or you can create a new security group that allows SSH. You can use the following settings to add SSH access:
    Type: SSH
    Protocol: TCP
    Port Range: 22
    Source: Anywhere 0.0.0.0/0


Choose Review and Launch.


Choose Launch.


Select the check box for the key pair that you created, and then choose Launch Instances.

