Step 1: Create Your Amazon EFS File System
In this step, you create your Amazon EFS file system that has the service recommended settings using the Amazon EFS console.
To create your Amazon EFS file system


Open the Amazon EFS Management Console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/efs/.


Choose Create file system to open the Create file system dialog box.



(Optional) Enter a Name for your file system.


For Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), choose your VPC, or keep it set to your default VPC.


Choose Create to create a file system that uses the following service recommended settings:
    Automatic backups turned on, for more information, see Using AWS Backup with Amazon EFS.
    Mount targets – Amazon EFS creates mount targets with the following settings:

A mount target in each Availability Zone in the Region where the file system is created.
Located in the default subnets of the VPC you selected.
Using the VPC's default security group – you can manage security groups after the file system is the created.

For more information, see Managing file system network accessibility.
    General Purpose performance mode – For more information, see Performance Modes.
    Bursting throughput mode – For more information, see Throughput Modes.
    Encryption of data at rest enabled using your default key for Amazon EFS (aws/elasticfilesystem) – For more information, see Encrypting Data at Rest.
    Lifecycle management enabled with a 30-day policy – For more information, see EFS lifecycle management.


After you create the file system, you can customize the file system's settings, with the exception of encryption and performance mode.
If you want to create a file system with a customized configuration, choose Customize. For more information about creating a file system with customized settings, see Creating a file system using the Amazon EFS console, 

The File systems page appears with a banner across the top showing the status of the file system you created. A link to access the file system details page appears in the banner when the file system becomes available.

