Validating Configurations
You are now ready to validate the AWS Service Management Connector for Jira Service Desk installation procedures. 
AWS Service Catalog
To order an AWS Service Catalog product


Log in to your Jira Service Desk customer portal as the end user. 


In the Jira Service Desk customer portal, choose Request AWS product.


Enter Summary details.


Open the AWS product request detail menu and select a product to provision.


Fill in the product request details, including product reference name, parameters, and tags.


Choose Create to submit the Jira Service Desk request and provision the AWS Service Catalog product. 


After the request processes, a message appears indicating that your request was created. When the product is ready to provision, the end user is notified that the product is launching.


To view provisioned products


In the Jira Service Desk customer portal, go to Requests in the upper right corner.


Select My Requests in the Jira Service Desk customer portal view.


Select the AWS product you requested.


The AWS product details will display, including the status of the product request, product events, and activities. 


Once the product is in the Available status, end users can request post-provision operations actions such as Request update, Request termination, and Request self-service actions. These actions render additional product events and activities within the request. Once the product is terminated, the request closes in a resolved state. 


Systems Manager Automation
To execute an automation document


Log in to your Jira Service Desk customer portal as the end user. 


In the Jira Service Desk customer portal, choose Request AWS automation. 


Enter Summary details. 


Open the AWS automation request detail menu and select an automation document to execute. 


Fill in the automation request details, parameters and tags. 


Choose Create to submit the Jira Service Desk request and execute the AWS Systems Manager Automation Document. 


After the request processes, a message appears indicating that your request was created. As the automation executes, the end user is notified of progress. 


To view automation executions


In the Jira Service Desk customer portal, go to Requests in the upper right corner. 


Select My Requests in the Jira Service Desk customer portal view. 


Select the AWS automation execution you requested. The AWS automation execution details will display, including the status of the execution, request details, and steps. 

