

Getting started with a Salesforce data source (Console)
You can use the Amazon Kendra console to get started using a Salesforce data store. When you use the console you specify the connection information you need to index the contents of a Salesforce instance. For more information, see Using a Salesforce data source.
Use the following procedure to create a basic Salesforce data source using the default configuration. The procedure assumes you created an index following the steps in step 1 of Getting started with an S3 bucket (Console).
To create a Salesforce data source using the Amazon Kendra console


Sign into the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon Kendra console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/kendra/home.


From the list of indexes, choose the index that you want to add the data source to.


Choose Add data sources.


From the list of data source connectors, choose Salesforce.


On the Define attributes page, give your data source a name and optionally a description. Leave the Tags field blank. Choose Next to continue.


On the Define targets page, enter the URL of you Salesforce server.


In the IAM role field choose Create a new role. Enter a name for the role in the Role name field. Choose Next to continue.


In the Type of authentication field, choose New. This tells the console to create a new AWS Secrets Manager secret to contain credentials for your Salesforce data source.


In the New secret container name field enter a name to identify the Secrets Manager secret.


In the Username field, enter the user name for your Salesforce account.


In the Password field, enter the password for your Salesforce account.


In the Security token field, enter the security token for your Salesforce account.


In the Consumer key field, enter the consumer key of the Salesforce connected app that you are using.


In the Consumer secret field, enter the secret associated with the consumer key of the Salesforce connected app that you are using.


In the Authentication URL field, enter the OAUTH endpoint for Salesforce.


Choose Save authentication to save your authentication information.


In the Crawl settings section, under Standard objects, choose Document.


In the Set sync run schedule section, choose Run on demand.


Choose Next to continue.


On the Set field mappings - optional page, leave the defaults and choose Next.


On the Review and create page review the settings for the data source. Use the Edit buttons to make any changes that you need to make. When you are satisfied with the settings, choose Create to create your Salesforce data source.


After you choose Create, Amazon Kendra starts creating the data source. It can take several minutes for the data source to be created. When it is finished, the status changes from Creating to Active.
After creating the index, you need to sync the Amazon Kendra index with the data source. Choose Sync now to start the sync process. It can take several minutes to several hours to synchronize the data source, depending on the number and size of the documents.