Quick Start: Running the Samples Project on Android Devices
You can use this quick start to run the Samples Project on your Android device from a Windows computer.
Prerequisites
This topic assumes that you meet the following requirements:
 Lumberyard installed on a Windows computer.
 An Android device configured and connected to your computer with a USB cable
 Familiarity with Lumberyard Editor
Topics
 Prerequisites
 Downloading Required Software
 Configuring Android Studio
 Configuring Lumberyard Setup Assistant
 Configuring Asset Processor
 Running the Deployment Tool
Downloading Required Software
Download the following software:
 Android Studio 3.3 or later
 Android NDK r20 or later
 Java SE Development Kit (JDK) 1.8 or later
Configuring Android Studio
After you install Android Studio, you must configure it.
To configure Android Studio


Open Android Studio, choose Tools, Android and choose SDK Manager.
Note
You can also open the SDK Manager from the Welcome to Android Studio dialog. 


Choose SDK Tools and select the following options:
    Google Play APK Expansion Library
    Google Play Licensing Library
    Android SDK Platform-Tools
    Android SDK Tools


Choose OK.


Configuring Lumberyard Setup Assistant
Use Lumberyard Setup Assistant to install the required third-party software and SDKs for Android.
To run the Samples Project on an Android device


Navigate to the lumberyard_version\dev\Tools\LmbrSetup\Win\ directory and double-click SetupAssistant.exe.


If you see a Custom Install box, click Customize and verify that the engine root path is correct.


On the Get Started page, select the following:
    Compile the game code
    Compile the engine and asset pipeline
    Compile the Lumberyard Editor and tools
    Compile for Android devices


On the Required Software page, click Browse and specify the paths for the following:
    Android Native Development (NDK)
    Android Software Development Kit (SDK) Tools
    Java SE Development Kit (JDK)
See the following example,
Example 



Click Next until you reach the final page, and close Lumberyard Setup Assistant.


Configuring Asset Processor
Next, you must configure Asset Processor so that it can process your game assets for Android.


Navigate to the lumberyard_version\dev\ directory.


In a text editor, open the AssetProcessorPlatformConfig.ini file. 


Remove the semicolon to uncomment es3=enabled, as shown in the following example.


[Platforms]
   ;pc=enabled
   es3=enabled
   ;ios=enabled
   ;osx_gl=enabled

Save the file.

Running the Deployment Tool
Next, you must run Lumberyard Editor and the Deployment Tool so that the Samples Project runs on your device.
To run the deployment tool


Start Lumberyard Editor.


Choose File, Open, and select the Advanced_RinLocomotion level.


Choose File, Project Settings, and choose Deploy to device.


In the Deployment Tool window, select the following.
    For Target Platform, select Android ARMv8.
    For Build Options, select Build Game.


Click Deploy to local device. The code builds and deploys to your device, as shown in the following example.
Example 


