Asset Processor Interface
The Asset Processor interface provides areas containing detailed information about the assets that it processes. These areas are shown in the following example.


A – Processing status
Displays asset processing status, the project name, its root location, and the processor port.
B – Tabs
Displays scoped views of Asset Processor functionality. Assets is the default tab. You can also choose Shaders, Connections, Logs, and Tools. These tabs are described in detail in the following section.
C – Asset Status
Displays the asset status and details about the source asset in a sortable table.
D – Asset status search with filter
Filters your search by keyword, regular expressions, or status.
E – Event log details
Provides additional information for the selected row in the asset status table.
F – Event log details filter
Filters by warnings and errors.
G – Context details
When enabled, shows specific debugging information for the asset. This setting is disabled by default.
H – Event log line details table
Displays debugging values set in the program for the selected line in the Event log details. These values are emitted during processing.
I – Asset processing timer
 After asset processing completes, displays information about the time that it took to perform scans, analyze assets, and produce a build. 
The following sections describe these areas and the additional tabs in more detail.
Asset Status
The Asset Status table displays the status of assets that Lumberyard is processing. Select a row to display contextual asset processing information in the Event Log Details table.
The columns in the Asset Status table display the following information about each asset:
 Source – Asset's file name and location
 Completed – Timestamp of the process completion
 Platform – Game platform
 Job Key – Specific job process

Status Column
In the Status column, you can sort by status types.
The column headers display the following information about each asset:
 Completed  – Completely processed and converted for use in the game
 Failed – Failed and needs investigation and debugging
 In Process – Currently processing and will display Completed or Failed when complete
 Pending – Awaiting processing
Filtering by Keyword and Status
In the filter box, you can filter the table view by entering keywords and regular expressions. The regular expressions are standard std::regex in extended format. The standard std::regex rules apply.
Example
A regular expression (regex) to search for all files ending with .png:  
*.png
The asterisk (*) indicates any character 0 or more times.
Example
A regex to search for any files under a Slices subdirectory:  
/Slices/.
The dot plus (.) indicates any character 1 or more times.
To view all assets with a particular status, do one of the following:
 Type the status keyword (for example, "failed").
 Click the filter icon and select the status types that you want to see.
Filters that you apply remain active until you remove them. You can either clear the status type box, or click the X next to the filter's label.

Using a Row's Context Menu
You can perform actions on each row in the Asset Status table. Right-click on the row to expose a context menu with the following actions:
Show in Asset Browser
Highlights the asset in the Editor's Asset Browser. The Editor must be open and running.
Open in Explorer
Opens the asset in Windows Explorer.
Copy
Copies the asset name.
Open log file
Opens the most recent log file for the asset, if one has been made. File copies and other simple asset processing steps don't generate logs.
Open folder with log file
Opens the directory with the log file for the asset.

Event Log Details
In the Event Log Details table, you can view asset processing information for an asset that you select in the Asset Status table. This table provides an activity log that shows how the asset was processed and any errors or warnings generated during processing.
The Status column displays icons for the following message types:
Information
Additional supporting messages are available about the processing of the asset.
 Warning
See the Message column for information about a potential processing issue for this asset.
 Error
The location of the asset and the specific error generated by attempting to process that asset.
The Source column indicates the subsystem that generated the message (such as AssetBuilder) or a generic type, such as Warning or Error.
The Message column displays information related to the processing details of the selected asset.
Note
The Message column occasionally prefixes Errors with E: and warnings with W:.

The Event Log Details table also features a context menu to perform copy actions. You can copy the following to the clipboard:
 Copy Line – Selected line of the log
 Copy Line With Details – Selected line and any related details that appear in the Event log line details table
 Copy All – All log lines and any hidden details for each item

Event Log Line Details
The Event Log Line Details table displays when you enable the Context Details option. This table displays any additional information about the selected line in the Event Log Details table. These details and additional information is generally useful only when debugging issues with a particular asset.

The Event Log Line Details table also features a context menu to perform copy actions. You can copy the following to the clipboard:
 Copy Selected Key – Text in the Key column of the selected row
 Copy Selected Value – Text in the Value column of the selected row
 Copy All Values – All keys and values in the table

Shaders
The Shaders tab displays a table with information related to shader compiler proxies. Shader failures appear in this table. For more information, see Shader Compiler Proxy.
Connections
The Connections tab displays devices and programs that the Asset Processor is connected to and the platform they are running on. You can add approved connections in the White Listed Connections box and disapproved connections in Rejected Connections.
In the Active Connections table's Enabled column, automatic connections are labeled as Auto. This means that it's a connection that the Asset Processor created. One example of such a connection is Asset Builder connections. User-created connections show a check box. If you select the check box, the Asset Processor continually attempts to reconnect to those connections. You can use these custom connections for specialized cases, such as when connecting to mobile devices outside of a company's internal network.

You can edit or remove a user-created connection, or add a connection.

Logs
The Logs tab displays events for the internal operation of the Asset Processor. This area doesn't display logs for the processing of individual assets. The information in these logs is helpful for troubleshooting the Asset Processor if an issue occurs. 

Right-click to access the Logs context menu.

Tools
On the Tools tab, you control how your assets are scanned. Use Faster Scanning Mode when you don't need to perform a full asset scan. For more information, see Enabling Asset Processor's Faster Scanning Mode.
