Upgrading Wwise LTX to the Full Version
To upgrade Wwise LTX to the full version of Wwise, follow the procedures in this topic.
Topics
 Upgrading the SDK
 Upgrading Your Project
 Upgrading Your Soundbanks
After you upgrade the SDK, project, and soundbanks, you can open your game in Lumberyard to test your sounds. 
Upgrading the SDK
To upgrade the SDK


Open Wwise Launcher. If you don't have it, install it from https://www.audiokinetic.com/download.


On the WWISE tab, under Install New Version, click the dropdown menu, and select Wwise 2018.1.4.6807, which is the version supported by Lumberyard.


Click Install.


For Packages, select SDK (C).


For Deployment Platforms, select the platforms required for your project.


Some platform components are available only after you purchase them from Audiokinetic. For more information about licensing, see https://www.audiokinetic.com/pricing.


Enter the installation directory and click Next.


Select the plugins to install, and click Install.


After installation completes, navigate to the lumberyard_version\3rdParty\Wwise directory.


Create a directory named 2018.1.4.6807.


Navigate to the Wwise installation directory that you specified in step 6, and copy the SDK directory into the lumberyard_version\3rdParty\Wwise\2018.1.4.6807 directory.


To verify that Lumberyard recognizes the Wwise installation and configuration:


Run Lumberyard Setup Assistant.


On the Install optional SDKs page, verify that a green checkmark appears next to Audiokinetic Wwise.


Navigate to the lumberyard_version\dev\Gems\AudioEngineWwise\Code directory. 


In a text editor, open the wscript file.


Edit the wwise_flavor parameter from WWISELTX to WWISE and save the file.


This instructs the WAF build system to use Wwise instead of Wwise LTX.

Configure WAF and build the project. For more information, see Building Lumberyard projects.

Upgrading Your Project
After you successfully configure and build Lumberyard, you can upgrade the content in your project. This assumes that you already have a Wwise LTX project set up for your game project.
Follow this procedure to upgrade an existing Wwise LTX project to use the full version of Wwise.
Prerequisites
If your Wwise LTX project and soundbanks are under source control, you must check them out. Check out the entire lumberyard_version\dev\game_project\Sounds directory. After you upgrade your project, select the files that were created, and then revert any unmodified files before you submit them.
Important
During the upgrade process, read each message that Wwise displays.
To upgrade your project


Open Wwise Launcher.


On the WWISE tab, in the Versions Installed list, find 2018.1.4.6807. Verify that the full revision is listed.


Click Launch Wwise (64-bit).


If this is the first time running Wwise Authoring Tool for this version, an End-User License Agreement (EULA) dialog appears. Review and accept the EULA.


In the Project Launcher dialog, click Open Other, and open the file_name.wproj file for your game project. 


You can find this file in the lumberyard_version\dev\game_project\Sounds\wwise_project directory.
    If a message appears stating that you are upgrading from an earlier version of Wwise, you must upgrade the Wwise project XML schema. The message lists the files to be updated and highlights any files that are read-only.
    The message also states that this action is a one-way project upgrade. This means that the upgraded project no longer loads with Wwise LTX. You can back up of your Wwise LTX project before you click Yes in this message.
    The Project Load Log message displays all the changes made. You might see information about default work units that were missing and created when you upgraded. 
    If your Wwise project is under source control, ensure that you add these .wwu files to your depot. 

Close the message and save the Wwise project. 

Wwise LTX uses a single generic platform. After upgrading to Wwise, you can edit the platforms for your project.
Upgrading Your Soundbanks
After you upgrade the SDK and your project, you can rebuild your soundbanks.
Note
Wwise LTX uses a single Generic platform. You can edit the platforms by going to Project, Platform Manager. If you change the platforms, you must reopen your project.
To upgrade your soundbanks


Open your project in Wwise.


Click Project, License Manager.


Choose to either import your license or paste it from the clipboard.


Click Save.


Navigate to Project. Click Project Settings or press ShiftK, and select the SoundBanks tab.


For each platform in your project, click the ellipsis to open the Post-Generation Step editor.


In the Post-Generation Step editor, click Load, From Last Location.


Navigate to the lumberyard_version\dev\Tools\WwiseAuthoringScripts directory, select the ly_copy_output_and_generate_metadata.wcmdline file, and click Open.


Click OK in the Post-Generation Step editor.


Click OK in the Project Settings window.


Open the SoundBank Layout. Press F7 or click Layouts, Soundbank.


Select all SoundBanks, Platforms, and Languages.


Click Generate. The Generating SoundBanks dialog displays the progress.


The most common errors encountered during the generate process are caused by read-only files or by not having a license applied to the project.
Lumberyard is now using the full version of Wwise. You can now run Lumberyard Editor and your game to test your sounds.