FBX Soft Naming Conventions
You can use soft naming conventions when authoring assets in your digital content creation (DCC) tools, such as Autodesk 3ds Max or Maya. Soft naming conventions are prefixes or suffixes that you add to either your scene's DCC node or the .fbx file name. In Lumberyard, Asset Processor recognizes these soft naming conventions and then applies an action based on the specified soft naming convention.
Lumberyard provides soft naming conventions as a convenience for content creators to automate steps that are typically done manually in the FBX Settings tool. Depending on the soft naming conventions that you specify, Asset Processor automatically adds those modifiers to the scene settings. 
Contents
 Viewing Soft Naming Conventions
 Soft Naming Convention Parameters
 Examples
 Configuring Soft Naming Conventions
 Moving FBX Files Between Projects
Note
The Scene Processing gem is required to use the FBX Settings tool. This gem is enabled by default.
The following table lists current soft naming conventions and the actions that are applied.
Default Soft Naming Conventions 



Soft Naming Convention
Method
Supported Modules
Example
Asset Processor Action




_phys
Apply suffix to node name.
CryPhysics, PhysX
legMesh_phys
Nodes with the _phys suffix are treated as a physics proxy. A physics proxy modifier is automatically added.


_lod1 _lod2 _lod3 _lod4 _lod5
Apply suffix to node name.
Graphics
jack_lod1 jack_lod2 jack_lod3 jack_lod4 jack_lod5
Nodes are treated as LOD meshes. The scene settings automatically add an LOD modifier with each suffixed node.


_ignore
Apply suffix to node name.
Graphics and CryPhysics
jackSkeleton_ignore
Asset Processor ignores and doesn't process nodes with the _ignore suffix.


_anim
Apply suffix to file name.
CryAnimation
jackMoves_anim.fbx
For .fbx file names with the _anim suffix, Asset Processor processes only the animations in the .fbx file.



Viewing Soft Naming Conventions
You can use the System Entity Editor to view the current soft naming conventions for your project.
To view the soft naming conventions


In the Project Configurator, choose Advanced Settings for your project.


In the System Entity Editor, for Configuration, select Editor. Soft naming conventions are available only to tools and Lumberyard Editor.


Expand the Scene Processing Config section to find the soft naming conventions.
Note
If the Scene Processing Config section doesn't appear, click Add Component and then click Scene Processing Config. 



Soft Naming Convention Parameters
You can use the System Entity Editor to match the files that use the specified pattern for the node name or file name. The soft naming conventions are matched based on the pattern of the node name or file name that you specify. 
There are three approaches available for matching:
Postfix
Checks if the node or file name ends in the specified pattern. For file name, the extension isn't included.
Prefix
Checks if the node or file name starts with the specified pattern. This approach doesn't include any paths that are in front of the node or file name.
Regex
For complex pattern matching, you can use regular expressions to match the entire node (for example, root.group_a.group_b.mesh) or file path (for example, example/file/object.fbx). This approach is more complex but useful if you want more granular control. For example, you can use regular expression to have all files in an /animation/ directory export only the animation files. 
For Node name settings, you can specify the following:
Virtual type
Provides the list of virtual types that the nodes are converted to after their pattern matches. You can assign multiple virtual types to a single node.
Include child node
If enabled, the virtual type applies to the node and all of its child nodes. You can use this option to apply the change to a parent node and all of its children without adding a separate rule for each child node.
For File name settings, you can specify the following:
Virtual type
Provides the list of virtual types that the files are converted to after their pattern matches.
Graph type
Select one or more graph types that the virtual type is applied to.
Inclusive
If enabled, the virtual type applies to all graph node types that are selected. If disabled, the virtual type applies to all graph node types that are unselected.
Examples
Using these parameters, you can customize how Asset Processor processes .fbx files that you import. 
Example Node Name Setting
You can pair a node name in a source asset file to a predefined Lumberyard virtual type.   


For Node name setting, for Pattern, specify _lod1.


For Matcher, specify Postfix. 


For Virtual type, specify LODMESH1 and select the Include child nodes check box.


When Asset Processor processes the .fbx file, it checks for node names with the _lod1 suffix. If any nodes match, Asset Processor assigns them the LODMESH1 virtual type, and the change applies to all child nodes.


Example File Name Setting
You can pair a file name in a source asset file to a predefined Lumberyard virtual type.   


For Node name setting, for Pattern, specify anim_.


For Matcher, specify Prefix. 


For Virtual type, specify Ignore.


For Graph type, specify IAnimData and select the Inclusive check box.


When Asset Processor processes your files, it checks for file names with the anim_ prefix and that use the IAnimData graph type. If any file names match, Asset Processor assigns them the Ignore virtual type.


Configuring Soft Naming Conventions
The preconfigured soft naming conventions might not apply to your workflow. You can change the existing soft naming conventions or create and delete them as needed.
To change soft naming conventions


In the System Entity Editor, for Node name settings, you can specify the following options:


For Pattern, specify a value. The matcher uses this value to check against the file.


For Matcher, select one of the following:

PreFix
PostFix
Regex



For Virtual type, select one of the following:

Ignore
LODMesh1 – LODMesh5
PhysicsMesh



For Include child nodes, specify whether the virtual type applies to the node and its children.


For File name setting, you can specify the following options:


For Pattern, enter a value. The matcher uses this value to check against the file.


For Matcher, select one of the following:

PreFix
PostFix
Regex



For Virtual type, select one of the following:

Ignore
LODMesh1 – LODMesh5
PhysicsMesh



For Graph type, select the graph types that you want.


For Inclusive, specify whether the virtual type applies to graph node types that you selected in the previous step. If disabled, the virtual type applies to graphs that are unselected.


To add a configuration, click the  icon.


For Classes, choose File name setting or Node name setting and then click Save.


To delete a configuration, click the x icon.


Click Save.


Moving FBX Files Between Projects
Soft naming conventions are project-specific. As a result, different projects can process the .fbx file differently. 
To process the FBX file the same way between projects


In the FBX Settings tool, open the .fbx file to move. 


Click Update at least once. This creates a manifest (.fbx.assetinfo) file.


When you move the .fbx file to another project, move the manifest file as well. This ensures that the .fbx file is processed the same way, regardless of the specified soft naming conventions.

