Capturing Image Frames
You can capture image frames using render output, a capture track, or console variables.
Topics
 Capturing Image Frames with Render Output
 Capturing Image Frames using a Capture Track
 Capturing Image Frames with Console Variables
Capturing Image Frames with Render Output
You can use the Render Output tool in the Track View to capture image frames. 
To capture image frames using Render Output


In Lumberyard Editor, choose Tools, Track View.


In the Track View, click Tools, Render Output.


In Render Output, set the input and out properties, and then click Add. You will see the capture added under Batch.


Click Start to start the capture.


Note
You may need to adjust the aspect ratio for captured image frames.
To change the aspect ratio for image frame captures


In Lumberyard Editor, choose Edit, Editor Settings, Global Preferences.


In Preferences, click Viewports.


Under General Viewport Settings, change the value for Perspective View Aspect Ratio. The default value is 1.3333.


Capturing Image Frames using a Capture Track
You can capture image frames when a sequence is played in game mode.
To capture image frames using a capture track


In Lumberyard Editor, choose Tools, Track View.


In the Track View, right-click the Director node and choose Add Track, Capture.


Double-click the created track to add a capture keyframe. You can set the following key properties:  



[See the AWS documentation website for more details]

Set up a Script Canvas graph to play the sequence on game start. 

Capturing Image Frames with Console Variables
Capture image frames with the following console variables. For more information, see Using the Console Window.
Capture Image Frames Console Variables 



Console Variable
Description




fixed_time_step
Lowers the game speed to achieve a constant frame rate throughout the sequence. For example, a time step value of 0.04 specifies a 25 fps gameplay speed. Default value: 0.0


capture_frames
Enables frame capture, if the value is set to 1.


capture_file_format
Sets the output format for the images. Valid values: .jpg, .tga, .tif


capture_file_prefix
Sets a file name prefix to use for captured frames. Default: Frame


capture_buffer
Sets the type of buffer to capture. Valid values:  0 = Color (RGB pixels) 1 = Color with Alpha (RGBA pixels where the alpha channel is set to 255 where geometry exists)


