Creating a Wwise Project for Runtime Text-to-Speech
You can use the Audiokinetic Wwise audio system in Amazon Lumberyard to implement Text-to-Speech Cloud Gem features in your game project. To use Wwise to integrate sound into your Lumberyard game, you perform the following major steps:


Create a Wwise sound project. 


Create a sound in the Wwise project. 


Create an event to trigger the sound. 


Generate the soundbank file and save the Wwise project. 


Integrate the Wwise project with your game project. 


For the first four steps, you use the Audiokinetic Wwise authoring tool. For the last step, you use the Audio Controls Editor in Lumberyard Editor.
Prerequisites
Audiokinetic Wwise LTX – Audiokinetic Wwise LTX is an exclusive, free version of the Audiokinetic Wwise audio system for PC games that is included with Lumberyard. For installation information, see Setting up Wwise LTX.
Create a Wwise Sound Project
To create a Wwise sound project and its associated directories, you use the Wwise authoring tool.
To create a Wwise sound project


Run the Wwise LTX tool.


In the Project Launcher dialog box, click New.



In the New Project dialog box, specify the directory for the sound project files. Lumberyard requires that your sound project files (.wproj file and subdirectories) be placed in the dev\game_project\Sounds\wwise_project\ directory.



Click OK. Your project appears in the wwwise_project directory that you specified.


Create a Sound in the Wwise Project
To create a sound, you use the Audio tab of the Wwise authoring tool.
To create a sound in the Wwise project


In the Wwise Project Explorer panel, create a directory under Actor-Mixer Hierarchy. Right-click Default Work Unit, and then choose New Child, Virtual Folder.



Give the directory a name.



Create a sound object. Right-click the directory that you created, and then choose New Child, Sound SFX.


Give the sound a name.



Create an Event to Trigger the Sound
After you create a sound, you create an event with which you can trigger the sound from the context of your game.
To create a sound trigger event


Under Actor-Mixer Hierarchy, select your new sound.


In the project view Contents Editor pane, click Add Source, and then select Wwise Audio Input.



Right-click the sound that you created. Choose New Event, Play to create an event that can trigger the sound.



A new event is created with the default name of Play_{sound-name}_{nn}. You can specify a different name if you want. The event ID appears on the upper right.

Generate the Soundbank File and Save the Wwise Project
After you have created an event for the sound, you generate a soundbank file and save the sound project.
To generate the soundbank and save the project

In Wwise LTX, click Generate Soundbank.


If the Generate Soundbank button is not available in the version of Wwise that you are using, perform the following steps:


Open SoundBank Manager. Choose Layouts, SoundBank, or press F7.


In the SoundBanks pane, select the Default Work Unit check box.


In the Platforms pane, select Windows.


In the Languages pane, select English (US).


Click Generate.


In the Generating SoundBanks - Completed window, click Close.


In the Wwise Project menu, choose Save.


Integrate the Wwise Project with Your Game Project
Now you are ready to use Lumberyard's Audio Controls Editor to integrate your Wwise sound project with your Lumberyard game project.
To integrate the Wwise sound project with your Lumberyard game project


In Lumberyard Editor, choose Tools, Other, Audio Controls Editor. Alternatively, click the headphone  icon.


In the left panel of Audio Controls Editor, create a new directory. This example creates a directory called wwise.


In the Wwise Controls middleware pane (the default location is on the far right) you should see an item for each event that you created and a .bnk file. The .bnk file is the soundbank file that you generated.



Drag these items from the Wwise Controls pane to the directory that you created on the left. This step alerts your game to the presence of the Wwise objects.


Click the item on the left that was created from the .bnk file. The Inspector panel inspects the object.


If the list under Preloaded Soundbanks is empty, drag the .bnk file from the Wwise Controls panel into the list of preloaded soundbanks.



In the Audio Controls Editor, choose File, Save All.

