Managing Bots

This feature is in preview release and is subject to change.
You use the Bots tab to manage your Amazon Lex bots.
To manage bots


Open the Cloud Gem Portal by doing one of the following:
    In Lumberyard Editor, click AWS, Open Cloud Gem Portal.
    If you have been given a shareable link to the Cloud Gem Portal (for example, by another team member), open the link in a browser. Lumberyard does not have to be installed on your computer.


Enter your user name and password at the sign-in page.


On the Cloud Gems page, click Speech Recognition.


Click the Bots tab.



This example uses the sample bot located at \dev\CloudGemSamples\Levels\CloudGemSpeechRecogintionSample\lex_test.json.
Note
 The misspelling of 'Recognition' in the path to the sample bot will be fixed in a future release. 
Creating a Bot
Click Create Bot on the Bots tab to create a bot.

The Bot name, Session timeout, and COPPA settings are required. 
Note
Although it is easier to create and edit bots with the Cloud Gem Portal, you can also use the Amazon Lex console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/lex/. For more information, see Create an Amazon Lex Bot (Console). For technical information, see the aws-lex-web-ui/templates/ page on GitHub.com.
Importing a Bot
To import an Amazon Lex bot from a local .json file, click Import Bot on the Bots tab.

Use the file browser to choose the file. When you do so, Amazon Lex automatically builds a machine learning model for the bot. The build can take some time to finish.
Building a Bot
To build a bot manually, choose Build from the menu for the bot on the Bots tab.

Amazon Lex builds a machine learning model for the bot. The build can take some time to finish.
Publishing a Bot
Amazon Lex supports publishing versions of bots, intents, and slot types so that you can control the implementation that your client applications use. To publish a bot, choose Publish from the menu for the bot.

You must provide an Amazon Lex alias to publish a bot. An alias is a pointer to a specific version of a bot with which you can easily update the version that your client application uses. For more information about versioning and aliases, see Versioning and Aliases in the Amazon Lex Developer Guide.
Viewing Bot Versions
To view the versions of a bot, click the arrow to the left of the bot name to expand the version list.

Exporting a Bot
To export a bot, use the Bots tab. Choose Export from the menu for the bot. This action downloads a .json file that contains the bot definition.

Deleting a Bot
To delete all versions of a bot, click the delete icon for the bot on the main Speech Recognition page.
