Using Heatmap Analytics
You can use heatmaps to view data that's generated from the Game Metrics Cloud Gem and for any metric type that a game client sends. In the Cloud Gem Portal, the heatmap appears as an overlay on an image of the game map. You can see information such as the majority of player movement and where most player deaths occur.

You can also expand heatmap functionality to use other gems that provide metrics, such as the Defect Reporter Cloud Gem. When used with this gem, you can see where bugs are generated.
To use heatmaps in the Cloud Gem Portal, you must generate events with positional data and select that event type in the heatmap tool.
Topics
 Prerequisites
 Creating Heatmaps with the Heatmap Tool
 Creating Screenshots of Your Level
Prerequisites
This tutorial assumes the following:
 You are using a Lumberyard project that has the Cloud Gem Game Metrics enabled. For more information, see Enabling Gems.
 You have created a project stack and deployment stack in the Cloud Canvas Resource Manager.
 You have sent test events with the Metrics Sample level or your level. You can find the Metrics Sample level in the lumberyard_version\dev\CloudGemSamples\Levels directory.
   Use the WASD keys to move the controllable entity around the level.
   Click Send Position to record the coordinates of the controllable entity.
For more information, see Using the Game Metrics Cloud Gem Portal and Sending Test Metrics with the Metrics Sample Level.
Creating Heatmaps with the Heatmap Tool
After you complete the prerequisites, you can create a heatmap to view your data in the Cloud Gem Portal.
To create a heatmap


In Lumberyard Editor, choose AWS, Open Cloud Gem Portal.


In the Cloud Gem Portal, on the Cloud Gems page, under Analytics, choose Heatmap.



On the Heatmaps page, click Create Heatmap.



For Name, enter a name to identify your heatmap.


For Level Screenshot, upload a top-down screenshot of your level. Use the mouse wheel or /- buttons to resize the image. Move the image to fill the gray image box.
Note
Lumberyard includes a sample screenshot in the lumberyard_version\dev\CloudGemSamples\Levels\MetricsSample\cloud_gem_portal_heatmap_image.png directory.
You can also create your own screenshot. For more information, see Creating Screenshots of Your Level.



For Max Zoom Scale, set the minimum and maximum values. You can adjust these values to change how the aggregated data points appear as heat spots on the map.


For Game World Coordinates, enter the xy coordinates for the bottom left and bottom right of the viewport screenshot. This is necessary to properly map the data points that are captured in the game to the top-down screenshot of your level.


Lumberyard includes a text file with the xy coordinates of the sample screenshot. You can find the cloud_gem_portal_heatmap_global_coordinates.txt file in the lumberyard_version\dev\CloudGemSamples\Levels\MetricsSample directory.
If you're using the sample screenshot, enter the following xy coordinates:
    Lower Left: X=0.39 | Y=4.05
    Lower Right: X=126.96 | Y=3.15
If you created your own screenshot, you need to identify the xy coordinates. For more information, see Creating Screenshots of Your Level.


For Event, select an event type from the drop-down list. This event type is the data source for the heatmap and should include positional data.
Note
If you're using the Metrics Sample level, the event type is called translation.


For X Axis, select the x position of the event type that you selected.


For Y Axis, select the y position of the event type that you selected.


(Optional) You can filter search results to show metrics on the heatmap for a specified time range or that meet certain SQL filters.
Example 


You can filter the search results to show metrics for user IDs that match XYZ (uid = 'XYZ') or for iOS devices only (platform_identifier = 'iOS').


Click Save.

Creating Screenshots of Your Level
You can create a top-down screenshot of your level to use with the heatmap overlay.
To create a top-down screenshot of your level


In Lumberyard Editor, open your level.


In the Entity Outliner, select your controllable entity. For example, in the Metrics Sample level, under Player, select followcam.



In the Entity Inspector, do the following:


Under Camera, click Be this camera.



Under Transform, for Rotate, set X to 270 degrees. This rotates the camera orthogonal to the level.



In the viewport, do the following:


Click anywhere to deselect the entity.


Adjust the viewport dimensions to match your level dimensions. For example, if your level has a square geometry, adjust the viewport into a square shape.


Use the mouse wheel to scroll out.


Use the WASD and QE keys to adjust the view. Your level should cover the bottom left and right of the viewport.


Use your preferred tool to capture and save a screenshot of the viewport.
Note
You'll specify the path to your screenshot on the Create Heatmap page in the Cloud Gem Portal.



Pause on the bottom left of the viewport.
Important
The pointer must touch the terrain, not the void space.



In the bottom toolbar, locate the xy coordinates for the bottom left of the viewport.
Note
If the xy coordinates aren't updating as you move the pointer, you can use the right mouse button to rotate the camera slightly.
Example 


The following image shows the pointer at X: 7.05, Y: 75.10.


Repeat steps 6 and 7 for the bottom right of the viewport.
Note
You'll specify these xy coordinates for the heatmap Game World Coordinates in the Cloud Gem Portal.
