Using the Defect Reporter Cloud Gem Sample Level
You can use the DefectReporterSample level that is included with Lumberyard to generate sample defect reports. The sample includes a number of preset data collection fields. For information on creating custom fields for the sample level, see Creating Custom Data Collection Fields.
Prerequisites
This tutorial assumes the following:
 You have used the Project Configurator to set CloudGemDefectReportSample as your default project.
 You used the Cloud Canvas Resource Manager or the lmbr_aws command line tool to create the following:
   A project stack for your project.
   A deployment for your project that has the CloudGemDefectReporter and CloudGemMetric cloud gems enabled.
If you don't meet the prerequisites, see Choosing a Game Project to Open to set CloudGemDefectReportSample as your default project. For information on how to create a project stack and a deployment stack, see Tutorial: Getting Started with Cloud Canvas.
Workflow Steps
You can use the DefectReporterSample level to do the following:


Generate report data.


View and annotate the reports.


Submit the reports.


After you submit the reports, you can view them in the Using the Defect Reporter Cloud Gem Portal.
To use the Defect Reporter cloud gem sample level


In Lumberyard Editor, choose File, Open.


In the Open a Level dialog box, expand Levels.


Choose DefectReporterSample, and then click Open.


Press CtrlG to start the level. The sample level looks similar to the following image.



To generate a defect report, press F1. A status box in the lower left of the screen informs you that data collection is in progress.



Data collection takes a few moments. When it is completed, the status box informs you that the report is available to view and annotate.



Press F1 to generate a few more reports.


To view and annotate the reports, click the status box or press F5. This opens the Defect Report Editor.



The Defect Report Editor has the following fields:


Metrics Data – Shows the data that was collected automatically. Use the scroll bar to see more data.


Attachments – Lists the attachments that were captured as part of the data gathering process.


Custom Field – Provides an area to gather custom data. You can create custom fields in the Cloud Gem Portal. For more information, see Creating Custom Data Collection Fields.


Error Message – A text box in which you can enter information regarding the error. The box can be empty or contain a relevant error message. You can add your own comments to the box. The box holds a maximum of 180 characters.



Screenshot – Shows a screenshot of the level at the time that the error occurred. 


To switch reports, click the navigation arrows at the bottom of the editor.



To manage the reports, use the buttons under the screenshot.



Delete – Deletes the report.


Cancel – Closes the report editor. If you reopen the editor, you can continue editing any reports that you have not yet submitted.


Submit – Submits the report that is currently displayed in the editor.


Submit All – Submits all reports in the editor.


For this tutorial, click Submit All to submit the reports that you generated.


The editor informs you of the success or failure of the operation. 



Click Close to close the Defect Report Editor. When you have more than one issue but submit just one, the Defect Reporter remains open.


Press ESC to stop the sample level.


The reports are available in the Cloud Gem Portal in about 10 minutes. To accelerate the process, do one of the following:
 
To use the Game Metrics Cloud Gem Portal


From the Cloud Gem Portal, click Game Metrics.


Click the Settings tab.


In the Extra Actions section, click the three options Consume, Unleash Amoeba, and Crawl, in that order.


Wait until the area under the Crawl button shows the following message:
The AWS GLUE data crawler is READY. 
 


To use the lmbr_aws command and the Game Metrics Cloud Gem Portal


In the lumberyard_version\dev directory, enter the following command:
lmbr_aws metric consume


From the Cloud Gem Portal, click Game Metrics.


Click the Settings tab.


In the Extra Actions section, click the two options Unleash Amoeba and Crawl, in that order.


Wait until the area under the Crawl button shows the following message:
The AWS GLUE data crawler is READY. 


To view and manage the reports, see the Using the Defect Reporter Cloud Gem Portal.