Leaderboard Cloud Gem Portal
Topics
 Prerequisites
 Accessing and Using the Leaderboard Cloud Gem Portal
 Testing the Leaderboard Sample Level
 Leaderboard Sample Level Implementation Details
 Leaderboard Cloud Gem Resources
 Leaderboard Cloud Gem Service API
You can use the Leaderboard cloud gem portal to create, view, and customize leaderboards by deleting scores, banning players, and removing bans.
Prerequisites
This tutorial assumes the following:
 You are using a Lumberyard project that has the Leaderboard Cloud Gem enabled (in the Project Configurator, select Cloud Gem Leaderboard).
 You have created a project stack in Cloud Canvas Resource Manager.
 You have created a deployment stack in Cloud Canvas Resource Manager.
If you don't meet the prerequisites, follow the steps in Enabling Gems to add Cloud Gem Leaderboard in the Project Configurator.
Accessing and Using the Leaderboard Cloud Gem Portal
You use Lumberyard Editor to work with the Leaderboard Cloud Gem Portal.
To access and use the Leaderboard Cloud Gem Portal



Opening the Cloud Gem Portal
In Lumberyard Editor, click AWS, Open Cloud Gem Portal and then choose the Leaderboard cloud gem.



Creating a Leaderboard
You must create a leaderboard for your game before you can start posting scores to it. In the Leaderboard Cloud Gem, click Add Leaderboard to create a leaderboard so that your game can use it. If your game tries to send data to a leaderboard that doesn't exist, the data is not be sent or saved anywhere.

A leaderboard has the following options:
    Leaderboard ID – This is the identifier for your leaderboard. The game client uses this ID to send data to the leaderboard. Currently, this ID does not support spaces. If you're creating a leaderboard for a particular region or language, it's good to put that information in the ID. For example, you could designate scores for North America with the ID "scores-NA" instead of just "scores".
    Mode – At launch, leaderboards have two modes: Overwrite and Increment. Overwrite mode overwrites a previous score for a player. Increment mode adds the value passed in from the game client to the previous value to keep a running total of a particular statistic. For example, you might use increment mode to track career statistics in a game.
    Minimum Reportable Value Allowed – The minimum value for the leaderboard. If the game client sends scores below the minimum value allowed, the scores are not recorded.
    Maximum Reportable Value Allowed – The maximum value for the leaderboard. If the game client sends scores above the maximum value allowed, the scores are not recorded.
 **Reservoir Sample Size** – The leaderboard sample reservoir size\. The recommended range is from 200 through 1000\.




Editing a Leaderboard
To edit all options for a leaderboard (except for Leaderboard ID), click the settings  icon on the right side of the leaderboard entry. If you want to change the value for Leaderboard ID, you must delete and recreate the leaderboard. When you delete a leaderboard, its data is also deleted.




Viewing Leaderboards
To view a leaderboard, click its name. This shows you a list of players and their scores in the leaderboard. You can also delete a player's scores or ban a player from all leaderboards.




Deleting Scores
To delete a score, click the delete icon on the right of the player's score. Then click Delete in the confirmation window.



Banning a Player
To ban a player, click the ban icon on the right side of the player table next to the delete icon. When you ban a player, the player's scores are removed from all leaderboards, and the player is prevented from posting on other leaderboards. This is a reversible action; you can remove a ban if done by mistake.




Removing a Ban
To remove a ban, click the Banned Players tab. The tab displays a list of banned players in all your leaderboards. Click the ban icon again, and then click Save in the confirmation window.
