Making a Cloud Canvas Deployment Active
You can select the deployment that you want Lumberyard Editor to consider active. The active deployment is the deployment that you work with in Lumberyard Editor. Lumberyard Editor uses the active deployment's resources when you launch your game. When you select the Working with Resource Groups node or an Managing Individual Resource Groups node in the Cloud Canvas Resource Manager navigation pane, the status information that appears corresponds to the active deployment.
You can also select the deployment that you want to be active by default for all team members.
Note*
To select a deployment, you must have initialized **Cloud Canvas Resource Manager* to work with your AWS account and created a deployment. For more information, see Initializing Cloud Canvas Resource Manager and Create Deployment . 
Making a Deployment Active
You have several ways to make a deployment active in Cloud Canvas Resource Manager.
To make a deployment active
 To make a deployment active, do one of the following:
    In Lumberyard Editor, click AWS, Cloud Canvas, Select a deployment. 

    In the Cloud Canvas Resource Manager toolbar, click the name of the current deployment, or click (none) if none is configured:

When prompted, choose the deployment that you want to make active:


One or more of the deployments may be marked **protected**\. For more information, see [Using Protected Deployments ](cloud-canvas-protected-deployments.md)\.


In the Cloud Canvas Resource Manager navigation pane, right-click the deployment that you want to make active, and then click Make active deployment: 


Making a Deployment the Default
You can use the Cloud Canvas Resource Manager to make a deployment the default.
To make a deployment active by default for all team members


In Lumberyard Editor, click AWS, Cloud Canvas, Cloud Canvas Resource Manager. 



In the Cloud Canvas configuration navigation tree, expand Administration (advanced), and then expand Deployments. 


Right-click the deployment that you want to make the default, and then click Make default deployment:



To use the command line to make a deployment the default
 To use the command line to make a deployment the default, enter the following command:
lmbr_aws deployment default --set <deployment name>