Infinite Ocean

This feature is in preview release and is subject to change. 
You can use the Infinite Ocean component to add an ocean surface to your level. The ocean expands to the horizon, no matter where the camera moves in the environment. 
 Ocean simulation is based on a fast Fourier transform (FFT) noise-based gradient, normal, and height maps, and mixes multiple frequencies and scale for ambient waves.
 Players can interact with ocean waves and generate wave propagation, such as shooting at the water.
 On higher-end machines, vertex displacement is used and supports additional water interaction, such as buoyancy and floating objects.
Note
To enable the Infinite Ocean component, you must enable the Water gem. For more information, see Add modular features and assets with Gems.
Example Infinite Ocean Component 

Water rendering in real time is complex due to visual and physical contributing factors. For example, light behaves differently when it moves from air into water. Most sunlight reflects off the ocean, but a large amount also penetrates into the water, which absorbs light more strongly than air. The visible light consists of a rainbow with different wavelengths, which appears as different colors. 
For example, blue light penetrates farther in the water, giving the ocean its blue and green colors. In contrast, the ocean absorbs red, orange, and yellow wavelengths, which removes these colors. When light hits a substance, the light does one of the following:
 The light hits molecules of a substance and then scatters and bounces off in different directions.
 The light passes through the substance.
 The substance absorbs the light, either completely or only some wavelengths. In Lumberyard this is called underwater fog.
In Lumberyard, various elements such as sunlight, reflections, and environment probes contribute to how the ocean surface renders. These elements approximate how light is scattered and absorbed in the ocean. 
Topics
 Adding the Infinite Ocean Component
 Understanding Water Properties
 Infinite Ocean Component Properties
 Water Shader Material for the Infinite Ocean Component
 Best Practices Working with the Infinite Ocean Component
 Additional Workflow
 Console Variables for the Infinite Ocean Component
 Infinite Ocean Component with the Track View Editor
 Infinite Ocean Component Request Bus Interface
 Using the Infinite Ocean Component with Script Canvas
Adding the Infinite Ocean Component
To create an infinite ocean in your level


Create an entity in your level.


In the Entity Inspector, click Add Component, and then choose the Infinite Ocean component. 


For more information, see Working with Components.