Slice Favorites
You can flag a slice as a favorite to make it easier to access and instantiate into your scenes. To use the slice favorites feature, enable the Slice Favorites gem.
Slice favorites are:
 Saved per user and per project.
 Instantiated from the viewport or Entity Outliner.
 Flagged as a favorite from the Asset Browser.
 Stored in a directory structure that you can organize and rename to suit your work flow.
 Shared by importing or exporting.
Opening the Slice Favorites Panel
Your slice favorites appear in the Slice Favorites panel, where you can reorganize and manage them.
To open the Slice Favorites panel, do one of the following
 In the Entity Outliner, right-click to open the context menu, and choose Slice favorites, Manage favorites.

 In Lumberyard Editor, choose Tools, Other, Slice Favorites.
The Slice Favorites panel appears in its default location, above the Entity Inspector.

Flagging a Slice as a Favorite
You can flag a slice as a favorite so that your slice appears in the Slice Favorites panel.
To flag a slice as a favorite
 In the Asset Browser, do one of the following:
 Right-click a slice and choose Add as slice favorite.
 Drag a slice to the Slice Favorites panel.
Removing a Slice Favorite
You can remove a slice favorite so that it no longer appears in the Slice Favorites panel.
To remove a slice favorite, do one of the following
 In the Asset Browser, right-click the slice and choose Remove as slice favorite.
 In the Slice Favorites panel, right-click the slice, choose Remove selected, and then confirm the removal in the dialog.
Managing Slice Favorites
You can perform a variety of actions to manage your slice favorites in the Slice Favorites panel.To manage slices in Slice Favorites, you can do the following
Drag and Drop
Select one or more slices or folders to drag them into other folders or to reorder them in the list.  

Add a folder
Right-click the Slice Favorites panel and choose Add folder.  

Rename a folder
Right-click a folder in the Slice Favorites panel and choose Rename.
Rename a slice
Right-click a slice in the Slice Favorites panel, and choose Rename.
Renaming a slice changes its display name in the Slice Favorites panel, but doesn't change the slice file name.
Import favorites from an XML file
Right-click the Slice Favorites panel and choose Import slice favorites.  

Export favorites to an XML file
Right-click the Slice Favorites panel and choose Export slice favorites, and then select or create an XML to export.
Instantiating a Slice Favorite
To instantiate a slice favorite, do one of the following:
 Right-click the viewport or Entity Outliner, choose Slice favorites, and then navigate to the slice you want to instantiate.

 Drag a slice from the Favorite Slices panel into the viewport or the Entity Outliner.