Cloth

This feature is an experimental release and is subject to change. 
The Cloth component treats the vertices of any mesh that it references as particles and applies physical properties, forces, and constraints to simulate the behavior of cloth. You can add this component to any entity that has Mesh or Actor components. 
 Cloth Component Properties 
 Debug Visualization 
 Known Issues 
 References 
Cloth Component Properties
Base Properties
Set the core behavior of the cloth simulation.

Mesh node
A list of meshes to simulate as cloth. The meshes available in the list that have Cloth modifiers applied in the Scene Settings tool. 
Mass
Scale multiplier applied to the mass of all particles associated with this cloth component. Setting this parameter to 0.0 makes all particles static. 
Custom Gravity
Enable to override global gravity and set a custom gravity value for this cloth modifier. 
Gravity
With Custom Gravity enabled, this value is used for gravity for this cloth simulation. The default, -9.81 on the Z axis, is standard gravity. 
Gravity Scale
Scale multiplier applied to the gravity of all particles.
Animation Blending
Blend factor for cloth applied to meshes that also have skinned animation. 
0.0: Cloth mesh is fully simulated. 
1.0: Cloth mesh is fully animated. 
This property is available only when the Cloth component is applied to an Entity containing an Actor component. 
Stiffness frequency
An exponent that adjusts the overall stiffness of the cloth simulation. This exponent is applied per second to the damping, damping linear and angular drag, wind drag and lift, self collision stiffness, fabric stiffness, fabric compression, fabric stretch and tether constraint stiffness properties described in the following sections.
Damping Properties Group
Adjust the decay of particle velocities over time.

Damping
Damps particle velocity. 
0.0: Velocity is unaffected. 
1.0: Velocity is zeroed. 
Linear Drag
Portion of velocity applied to particles. 
0.0: Particles are unaffected. 
1.0: Global particle velocity is damped. 
Angular Drag
Portion of angular velocity applied to turning particles. 
0.0: Particles are unaffected. 
1.0: Global particle angular velocity is damped. 
Inertia Properties Group
Adjust particle acceleration. 

Linear
Portion of linear acceleration applied to particles. 
0.0: Particles are unaffected. 
1.0: Physically correct linear acceleration. 
Angular
Portion of angular acceleration applied to turning particles. 
0.0: Particles are unaffected. 
1.0: Physically correct angular acceleration. 
Centrifugal
Portion of angular velocity applied to turning particles. 
0.0: Particles are unaffected. 
1.0: Physically correct angular velocity. 
Wind Properties Group
Create a wind force to act on the cloth simulation. 

Velocity
Wind vector (direction and magnitude) in world coordinates. A greater magnitude applies a stronger wind force. 
The wind Velocity property is disabled when both the below air drag and lift coefficients are 0.0. 
Air drag coefficient
Specifies how much drag air applies to the particles.
Air lift coefficient
Specifies how much lift air applies to the particles.
Air Density
The density of air used for drag and lift calculations.
Collision Properties Group
Adjust the effect of collisions with other PhysX colliders.

Friction
Controls the amount of friction between particles and colliders. 
0.0: Friction disabled. 
Mass scale
Controls how quickly particle mass is increased during collisions. 
0.0: Mass scale disabled. 
Continuous detection
Continuous collision detection improves collision by computing the time of impact between cloth particles and colliders. 
The increase in quality can impact performance. We recommend that you use Continuous detection only when necessary. 
Self Collision Properties Group
Enable and adjust the effect of the cloth colliding with itself.

Distance
The minimum distance that the colliding particles must maintain from each other in meters. 
0.0: Self collision disabled. 
Stiffness
Stiffness for the self collision constraints. 
0.0: Self collision disabled. 
Fabric Stiffness Properties Group
Adjust the stiffness of the cloth. As values for these properties approach 1.0, the more heavy and stiff the cloth appears. 

Horizontal
Stiffness value for horizontal constraints. This value defines how much a cloth stretches and compresses horizontally. 
0.0: No horizontal compression and stretch constraints. 
Horizontal multiplier
Scale value for horizontal compression and stretch constraints. 
0.0: No horizontal compression and stretch limits applied. 
1.0: Fully apply horizontal compression and stretch limits. 
Vertical
Stiffness value for vertical constraints. This value defines how much a cloth stretches and compresses vertically. 
0.0: No vertical compression and stretch constraints. 
Vertical multiplier
Scale value for vertical compression and stretch constraints. 
0.0: No horizontal compression and stretch limits applied. 
1.0: Fully apply horizontal compression and stretch limits. 
Bending
Stiffness value for bending constraints. This value defines how easily a cloth folds on itself. 
0.0: No bending constraints. 
Bending multiplier
Scale value for bending constraints. 
0.0: No bending limits applied. 
1.0: Fully apply bending limits. 
Shearing
Stiffness value for shearing constraints. This value defines how easily a cloth twists. 
0.0: No shearing constraints. 
Shearing multiplie
Scale value for shearing constraints. 
0.0: No shearing limits applied. 
1.0: Fully apply shearing limits. 
Fabric Compression Properties Group
Set the compression limits for fabric.

Horizontal limit
Compression limit for horizontal constraints. This property is affected by Horizontal multiplier in the Fabric stiffness property group. 
0.0: Horizontal compression disabled. 
Vertical limit
Compression limit for vertical constraints. This property is affected by Vertical multiplier in the Fabric stiffness property group. 
0.0: Vertical compression disabled. 
Bending limit
Compression limit for bending constraints. This property is affected by Bending multiplier in the Fabric stiffness property group. 
0.0: Bending compression disabled. 
Shearing limit
Compression limit for shearing constraints. This property is affected by Shearing multiplier in the Fabric stiffness property group. 
0.0: Shearing compression disabled. 
Fabric Stretch Properties Group
Set the stretch limits for fabric.
Note
For these properties, reduce Stiffness of Tether constraints or increase its Scale to allow cloth to stretch. 

Horizontal limit
Stretch limit for horizontal constraints. This property is affected by Horizontal multiplier in the Fabric stiffness property group. 
0.0: Horizontal stretch disabled. 
Vertical limit
Stretch limit for vertical constraints. This property is affected by Vertical multiplier in the Fabric stiffness property group. 
0.0: Vertical stretch disabled. 
Bending limit
Stretch limit for bending constraints. This property is affected by Bending multiplier in the Fabric stiffness property group. 
0.0: Bending stretch disabled. 
Shearing limit
Stretch limit for shearing constraints. This property is affected by Shearing multiplier in the Fabric stiffness property group. 
0.0: Shearing stretch disabled. 
Tether Constraints Properties Group
Adjust the stiffness for tether constraints between particles with mass values and static particles.

Stiffness
Stiffness for tether constraints. 
0.0: Tether constraints disabled. 
1.0: Tether constraints behave like springs. 
Scale
Scale factor for tether constraint Stiffness 
Quality Properties Group
Set the overall quality of the cloth simulation.

Solver frequency
Target solver iterations per second. The executed number of iterations per second may vary dependent on many performance factors. However, at least one iteration per frame is solved regardless of the value set. 
Acceleration filter iterations
Number of iterations to average the delta time factor used for gravity and external acceleration. 
Debug Visualization

To enable the debug visualization of cloth, use these CVARs in the Editor Console 
cloth_debugDraw
Draw the cloth mesh wireframe. 
0: Disable wireframe display. 
1: Enable wireframe display. 
cloth_DebugDrawNormals
Draw the cloth mesh normals. 
0: Disable normals display. 
1: Enable normals display. 
2: Enable normals, tangents and bitangents display. 
cloth_DebugDrawColliders
Draw the cloth colliders. 
0: Disable collider display. 
1: Enable collider display. 
Known Issues

Cloth is currently supported only for Windows projects. 
Cloth Debug Visualisation does not display when running from Launchers. 
Cloth does not support levels of detail (LODs). 
Cloth does not support scaled transforms. 

References
Nvidia NvCloth Documentation 
Topics
 Cloth Component Properties
 Debug Visualization
 Known Issues
 References
 Cloth Simulation
 Create Cloth for Environments
 Create Cloth for Characters