Creating a Color Chart
You can create a color chart to apply color grading to your project. A color chart uses a reference image that can be an example image from your game or an image that contains a wide variety of color. You then modify the image, such as changing the hue, saturation, brightness, and so on. 
When you specify the color chart file with the Set Color Chart node, Lumberyard takes the image and its color chart and applies the color changes to your level. For example, you can use a color chart with negative saturation to make your game appear dark and muted. 
To create a color chart

Make a copy of the color chart file default_cch.tiff. You can find the color chart file in the lumberyard_version\dev\Engine\EngineAssets\Textures directory. 
Note
You must use this exact file so that the Resource Compiler can detect the color chart and use it to process the color charts that you create.

The following is an example color chart image:



Use a reference image that shows a wide range of colors and that has not been color corrected yet, and do the following:
Note
You don't need to use a high resolution or large reference image.
You can use any image as a reference, such as screenshot from your game. 


Copy and paste the color chart image into the reference image.


Flatten all layers for the image.


Save the image as filename_cch.tif, such as default_startergame_cch.tif.
Note
You do not need to include the _cch suffix for the image file.
Example default color chart image 


The following image is from Starter Game Sample and includes the color chart in the bottom right.



Make a copy of the image and then do the following: 


Modify the image so that it has the color correction that you want. Avoid extreme color correction changes, which can result in overlapping colors when the scene is processed.


Save the image as filename_cch.tif, such as saturation_cch.tif. 
Example modified color chart image 


The following image lowers the saturation.



Move all three files (default_cch.tiff and your color charts) to your game project directory, such as lumberyard_version\dev\StarterGame\textures\defaults\. 
Note
You use this directory to specify the file path to the color chart file in the Set Color Chart node. For more information, see Finding the Texture Name.


To compile your images so that Lumberyard Editor recognizes them as color charts, do one of the following:
    In Lumberyard Editor, in the Asset Browser, navigate to the color chart file and double-click it.
    If you have the RC Shell Commands plugin installed, right-click the image and choose RC Compile Image. 

Note
You can install the plugin in Lumberyard Setup Assistant. For more information, see Using Lumberyard Setup Assistant to Set Up Your Development Environment. 


In the Resource Compiler, verify that ColorChart is selected, click Generate Output, and then click OK.

Note
You can clear the Tiled option to preview the image correctly. This option does not affect your color chart.
To see more information about ColorChart settings, click Show preset info. You can find these settings in the rc.ini file, located in the lumberyard_version\dev\Bin64vc141\rc\ directory. 
For more information, see Using the Resource Compiler Image Tool.


Repeat steps 5 and 6 for all your color chart images.


In the Script Canvas editor, create a script. In the Set Color Chart nodes, specify the path to the color chart files that you created, and the Fade Time.
Example Set Color Chart Script 


The example script does the following:


When the graph starts, the Set Color Chart node sets a default color chart with the default_startergame_cch.tif file.


The Delay node waits three seconds.


During the next five seconds, the Set Color Chart node fades the screen to the color chart with the saturation_cch.tif file.



Attach the Script Canvas component to an entity and specify the script. For more information, see Working with Components. 


To test your script in game mode, press CtrlG.
Example 


The following example demonstrates the script.


To exit game mode, press Esc.
