Using the Top Toolbar

This topic references tools and features that are legacy. If you want to use legacy tools in Lumberyard Editor, disable the CryEntity Removal gem using the Project Configurator or the command line. To learn more about legacy features, see the Lumberyard Legacy Reference.
Lumberyard Editor provides a toolbar that allows you to easily access various editor tools and features. The toolbar is docked at the top of the editor by default, but you can also dock it vertically on the edges of the editor or undock it from the editor. To customize the toolbar, right-click anywhere on the toolbar and select Customize from the context menu. You can choose which toolbars, views, or modes to include. You can also add commands to a toolbar.

You can access Lumberyard tools and features using one of the following methods:
 Toolbar buttons
 Tools menu
 Keyboard shortcuts
For information about the bottom toolbar, see Using the Bottom Toolbar.
EditMode Toolbar

The EditMode toolbar includes various tools for general level editing:
 A – Revert or apply the last command
 B – Link or unlink the selected object
 C – Filter what you can select in the viewport: all, brushes, no brushes, entities, prefabs, areas, shapes, AI points, decals, solids, or no solids
 D – Use the translation tools to select, move, rotate, or scale an object or object type; and select or rotate a terrain area
 E – Select the reference coordinate system
 F – Specify the axis constraint by locking on the x-, y-, or z-axis or xy-plane
 G – Use the object placement tools to follow the terrain, snap to objects, snap to grid, snap to angle, or show the ruler
 H – Use the asset organization tools to open the object selector, create a selection, delete a selection, save selected objects, or load selected objects
 I – Select the current layer
Object Toolbar

The Object toolbar includes various tools for object alignment and manipulation:
 A – Go to the selected object
 B – Align the selection to an object by choosing the source object, clicking the tool, and then clicking the target object
 C – Align the object to the grid
 D – Set the object's height
 E – Align the object to the terrain surface normal (press and hold Ctrl for object surface normal alignment)
 F – Freeze or unfreeze the selected object
 G – Apply vertex snapping for the selected object
 H – Reset or get the physics state for the selected object or simulate physics on the selected object
If you align an object to another object that has modified scale or rotation, the original object will use the modified settings along with the position data. To override this action, use the following keys (single or combination) when you select the original object:
 Ctrl – Align the object to the bounding box
 Alt – Use the object's existing rotation
 Shift – Use the object's existing scale
Editors Toolbar

The Editors toolbar allows you to access various editor tools:
 A – Open the Asset Browser
 B – Open the Layer Editor
 C – Open the LOD Generator
 D – Open the Material Editor
 E – Opens Geppetto
 F – Open the Mannequin Editor 
 H – Open the AI Debugger
 I – Open the Track View
 J – Open the Audio Controls Editor
 K – Open the Terrain Editor
 L – Open the Terrain Texture Layers editor
 M – Open the Particle Editor
 N – Open the Time of Day editor
 O – Open the Sun Trajectory Tool
 P – Open the Database View
 Q – Open the UI Editor
Substance Toolbar
The Substance toolbar includes a button that opens the Substance Editor.
