Using the Viewport
The viewport window (called Perspective in Lumberyard Editor) displays the scene that is rendered by the engine. The majority of level design occurs in the viewport, including object placement, terrain editing, in-editor play testing, and asset creation and interaction. You can also use dynamic and flexible tools to understand the 3D relationships among objects in a level.
The Perspective header includes a search box, field of view (FOV), screen ratio information, and options to show or hide debug information. 
Topics
 Changing the Field of View (FOV)
 Changing the Camera View

To customize the viewport


In Lumberyard Editor, in the viewport title bar, right-click Perspective and choose Configure Layout.


In the Layout Configuration dialog box, select your preferred layout.



Click OK to save your changes.


Changing the Field of View (FOV)
You can change the default camera's FOV for the Lumberyard Editor viewport or the FOV for your game's camera. Follow the steps to change the default camera's FOV. To change the FOV for your game's camera, see Camera.
To change the default camera's FOV


In Lumberyard Editor, choose Edit, Editor Settings, Global Preferences.


In the Preferences window, under Viewports, click General.


In the right pane, under General Viewport Settings, for Perspective View FOV, set the desired value in degrees.


Click OK to save your changes.


Changing the Camera View
You can use the Viewport Camera Selector to quickly position and orient a camera in your game. You can choose between all in-game cameras and the editor camera. When you possess the camera, you can use the editor controls to manipulate the camera.
To possess the camera and move around


In Lumberyard Editor, in the Perspective viewport, select an entity with a Camera component or create one if it doesn't exist.


In the Entity Inspector, under Camera, choose Be this camera. This allows the editor to use the selected camera as its view.
Note
After choosing Be this camera, moving the view in the editor changes the transform for the camera entity. As you look around in the viewport while possessing a camera, the corresponding position and orientation for the transform is updated accordingly.



Do any of the following:
    Change to the default view: In the Entity Inspector, under Camera, choose Return to default editor camera.
    Choose another camera to possess in the Viewport Camera Selector.

    Disable the Viewport Camera Selector controls by entering game mode (CtrlG).

