Using the Preview Panel
You can use the Preview panel in the Particle Editor to view the particle effects.

This panel has the following features:


Display content in the viewport


Display the main menu


Choose which emitter hierarchies to display in the viewport


Reset the viewport to default settings


Toggle time of day visibility to simulate the approximate time of day


Toggle the display of the particles wireframe


Play back the timeline


Play, pause, and step forward


Reset emitter playback


Loop playback


You can access the following Preview panel options in the main menu and context menu.




Option
Description




Import Mesh
Imports a game mesh to view.


Play
Toggles playback.


Pause
Pauses playback.


Step forward
Steps forward one frame.


Play loop
Toggles the playback from once to looping.


Reset
Resets the playback to the beginning.


Reset camera position
Resets the preview camera to the default position.


Show/Hide overdraw
Toggles display of overdraw in the editor.


Wireframe view
Toggles display of the particles wireframe.


Show/Hide particle count
Toggles display of the particle count.


Show/Hide bounding box
Toggles display of the emitter bounding box.


Show/Hide gizmo
Toggles display of the preview window transform gizmo.


Show/Hide playback controls
Toggles display of the preview playback controls.


Show/Hide grid
Toggles display of the preview grid.


Show/Hide emitter shape
Toggles display for the visualization of shape emitters and their relative coordinates.


Background color
Opens the color picker for you to set the color of the preview background.


Grid color
Opens the color picker for you to set the color of the preview grid.


Reset colors
Resets the background and grid to the default colors.


Move on spline
Displays a spline in the Preview panel for the emitter to move along. This helps to preview the emitter motion. [See the AWS documentation website for more details][See the AWS documentation website for more details][See the AWS documentation website for more details]


Reset spline settings
Disables all spline settings.


Reset to default
Resets the preview window to the default configuration.


Close
Closes the Preview panel.


