Downloading Lumberyard
Download the latest version of Lumberyard Editor
https://d1a5h15s88ekwk.cloudfront.net/latest/installer/LumberyardInstaller.exe
You can also download earlier versions of Lumberyard and assets from the Amazon Lumberyard Downloads page.
Note
Verify that you have the required hardware and software for Lumberyard. For more information, see System requirements.
Topics
 Using the Lumberyard Installer
 Using GitHub to Download Lumberyard
 Lumberyard Directories and Files
Using the Lumberyard Installer
The Lumberyard Installer extracts the Lumberyard files and adds shortcuts to your desktop and start menu for the following:
 Lumberyard Setup Assistant
 Project Configurator
 Lumberyard Editor
If you have an existing Lumberyard project and you want to upgrade, see Upgrading Lumberyard.
Note
If you get file errors during extraction about AssetProcessor.exe, AssetProcessor_temp.exe, or CrySystem.dll, verify if your antivirus software is placing these files in quarantine. If needed, grant exceptions for the affected files.
To use the Lumberyard installer


If you haven't already, on the Lumberyard Downloads page, click Download Now. If your download is interrupted, the installer automatically resumes the download. 


Navigate to your download directory and run the Lumberyard Installer executable file: LumberyardInstaller.exe


(Optional) Change the location of the installation by selecting Options. The default installation location is C:\Amazon. 


On the Welcome page of the installer, click Install.
Note
In some situations, the Lumberyard Installer can hang and refuse to progress. The only known remedy at this time is to forcibly terminate the installer through the Windows Task Manager and reboot, then retry the installation.


Follow the instructions to complete your installation.


On the Installation Successfully Completed page, click Launch Lumberyard Setup Assistant to install required third-party software and SDKs. For more information, see Running Lumberyard Setup Assistant.


Using GitHub to Download Lumberyard
Each Lumberyard release exists as a separate branch in GitHub. To download Lumberyard, see the Amazon Lumberyard page on GitHub.
Lumberyard Directories and Files
After you install Lumberyard, the Lumberyard root directory includes the following folders and files:
 dev
   _WAF_ – Waf build system files.
   Bin64 – Binaries directory and configuration files for the Resource Compiler.
   Bin64vc141 – Binaries directory and configuration files for Visual Studio 2017.
   Bin64vc142 – Binaries directory and configuration files for Visual Studio 2019.
   Code – Source files directory and solution files.
   Editor – Editor assets.
   Engine – Engine assets.
   Gems – Optional systems and assets.
   MultiplayerSample – Multiplayer sample project that demonstrates how to build a multiplayer game with the new component entity system. For more information, see Multiplayer Sample.
   ProjectTemplates – Configuration files, libraries, and scripts for the empty template.
   SamplesProject – Sample project. For more information, see Samples Project.
   Tools – Third-party tools and plugins.
   engineroot.txt – System file required by Lumberyard Setup Assistant.
 3rdParty
   Third-party software required to use or compile Lumberyard
   3rdParty.txt – System file used by other third-party tools to verify the directory.
 docs
   PDF of the Amazon Lumberyard Release Notes.
   PDF of the Amazon Lumberyard Getting Started Guide.