Create Cloth for Environments

This feature is an experimental release and is subject to change. 
To use Cloth, you must enable the NVIDIA Cloth Gem. For more information, see the NVIDIA Cloth Gem documentation. 
Cloth Assets for Environments
You can create environment cloth assets in the DCC application of your choice and import them into Lumberyard from an FBX file. The environment asset should have the following: 
 A cloth mesh that will be rendered and simulated in Lumberyard. 
   This cloth mesh should have vertex color information, which you can create with a vertex painting tool in your DCC application. The Cloth component will use the red channel of the vertex color.
     A zero value in the red channel means the vertex will not be affected by cloth simulation. The vertex will be static. 
     Any other value in the red channel represents the invert mass of the vertex, and the vertex will be affected by cloth simulation. For example, a value of 0.3 in the red channel means the vertex has a mass value of 3.33 (from 1.0/0.3). The smaller (darker) the value, the greater the mass. 
 (Optional) Any other static mesh. For example, if you create a flag to be simulated as cloth, you can include a mesh for the flag pole
Note
Sample environment cloth assets are located in the NVIDIA Cloth Gem directory, which is located at \dev\Gems\``NvCloth/Assets/Objects/cloth/Environment/. 
Add Cloth to Environment Assets
Create cloth by adding the Cloth component to an entity that has a Mesh component, and setting the properties of the Cloth component. 


In Lumberyard Editor, add a new entity to the level. 


Add a Mesh component and reference the mesh asset and material. 


Add a Cloth component to the entity. 


Set the cloth data of the mesh asset. 


Click the button beside the Mesh node property to open the FBX Settings window. 



In the FBX Settings window, on the Meshes tab, and choose Add Modifier, Cloth. 


In the Cloth modifier area: 


Select the cloth mesh from the drop-down list. 


Select the vertex color stream that includes the invert masses. If a vertex color stream is not provided, cloth defaults to invert mass 1.0 for all vertices. 





Choose the Update button. Asset Processor then updates the asset and including the cloth data. For more information see Editing the FBX Settings. 


Configure the cloth component. 


Select the cloth mesh node from the drop-down list. 



Adjust cloth properties to obtain the desired cloth behavior. For more information, see Cloth Component. 


View the Cloth Simulation
In Lumberyard Editor, press CtrlG or press the Play button to run your project. 
