Image
You can use an Image component to add a color tint or texture to an element.
To see in-game examples of completed canvases with Image components


In Lumberyard Editor, in the Samples Project, open the UiFeatures level.


Press CtrlG to play the game and then choose fComponents, and then Visual Components, and then Image. 


You can view examples of image types such as sliced, stretched, fixed, tiled, stretched to fit, and stretched to fill.

Press Esc to exit the game.

To view these same canvases in the UI Editor, navigate to the lumberyard_version\dev\Gems\LyShineExamples\Assets\UI\Canvases\LyShineExamples\Comp\Image directory.
You can open the following canvases:
 ColorTest.uicanvas
 ImageTypes.uicanvas
Use the Properties pane of the UI Editor to configure the following settings for the Image component.
Image Settings 



Name
Description




SpriteType
Select one of the following: [See the AWS documentation website for more details]


Sprite path
Click the browse (…) icon and select a suitable file. Click the open-in (arrow) icon next to Sprite path to open the Sprite Editor.


Render target name
Enter a name of a render target and press Enter. For more information, see Adding a Render Target to a UI Element.


Index
The sprite sheet image index that the component will render.


Color
Click the color swatch to select a different color.  Displays only if the SpriteType is Sprite/Texture asset and the image has been configured as a sprite sheet using the Sprite Editor.


Alpha
Use the slider to choose an alpha value between 0 and 1.


Image type
Select one of the following:  [See the AWS documentation website for more details]


Blend Mode
Select one of the following:  [See the AWS documentation website for more details]


Fill Type
Select one of the following:  [See the AWS documentation website for more details]


Fill Amount
The amount of the image to be filled, from 0.00 to 1.00.


Fill Start Angle
The start angle for the fill, measured in degrees clockwise from vertical.


Corner Fill Origin
The starting corner that the image is filled from. Select one of the following: [See the AWS documentation website for more details]


Edge Fill Origin
The edge from which the image is filled about (radial corner) or from (linear). Select one of the following: [See the AWS documentation website for more details]


Fill Clockwise
If selected, the image is radially filled clockwise about the fill center.


Fill Center
If selected, the center segment of a slice-resized sprite is visible.


