Tag your Classic Load Balancer
Tags help you to categorize your load balancers in different ways, for example, by purpose, owner, or environment.
You can add multiple tags to each Classic Load Balancer. Tag keys must be unique for each load balancer. If you add a tag with a key that is already associated with the load balancer, it updates the value of that tag.
When you are finished with a tag, you can remove it from your load balancer.
Topics
 Tag restrictions
 Add a tag
 Remove a tag
Tag restrictions
The following basic restrictions apply to tags:
 Maximum number of tags per resource—50
 Maximum key length—127 Unicode characters
 Maximum value length—255 Unicode characters
 Tag keys and values are case sensitive. Allowed characters are letters, spaces, and numbers representable in UTF-8, plus the following special characters:  - = . _ : / @. Do not use leading or trailing spaces.
 Do not use the aws: prefix in your tag names or values because it is reserved for AWS use. You can't edit or delete tag names or values with this prefix. Tags with this prefix do not count against your tags per resource limit. 
Add a tag
You can add tags to your load balancer at any time.
To add a tag using the console


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


On the navigation pane, under LOAD BALANCING, choose Load Balancers.


Select your load balancer.


On the Tags tab, choose Add/Edit Tags.


On the Add/Edit Tags page, for each tag, choose Create Tag and then specify a key and a value.



After you have finished adding tags, choose Save.


To add a tag using the AWS CLI
Use the following add-tags command to add the specified tag:
aws elb add-tags --load-balancer-name my-loadbalancer --tag "Key=project,Value=lima"
Remove a tag
You can remove tags from your load balancer whenever you are finished with them.
To remove a tag using the console


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


On the navigation pane, under LOAD BALANCING, choose Load Balancers.


Select your load balancer.


On the Tags tab, choose Add/Edit Tags.


On the Add/Edit Tags page, choose the remove icon of the tag.



After you are have finished removing tags, choose Save. 


To remove a tag using the AWS CLI
Use the following remove-tags command to remove the tag with the specified key:
aws elb remove-tags --load-balancer-name my-loadbalancer --tag project