Quotas in AWS Elemental MediaStore
The Service Quotas console provides information about AWS Elemental MediaStore quotas. Along with viewing the default quotas, you can use the Service Quotas console to request quota increases for adjustable quotas.
The following table describes quotas, formerly referred to as limits, in AWS Elemental MediaStore. 




Resource or Operation
Default Quota
Comments




Containers
100
The maximum number of containers that you can create in this account.


DeleteObject
100 transactions per second (TPS)
The maximum number of operation requests that you can make per second. Additional requests are throttled. You can request a quota increase.


DescribeObject
1,000 TPS
The maximum number of operation requests that you can make per second. Additional requests are throttled. You can request a quota increase.


Folder Levels
10
The maximum number of folder levels that you can create in a container. You can create as many folders as you want, as long as they are not nested more than 10 levels within a container.


Folders
Unlimited
You can create as many folders as you want, as long as they are not nested more than 10 levels within a container.


GetObject – Standard Upload Availability
1,000 TPS
The maximum number of operation requests that you can make per second. Additional requests are throttled. You can request a quota increase.


GetObject – Streaming Upload Availability
25 TPS
The maximum number of operation requests that you can make per second. Additional requests are throttled. You can request a quota increase.


ListItems
5 TPS
The maximum number of operation requests that you can make per second. Additional requests are throttled. You can request a quota increase.


Object Size
25 MB
The maximum file size of a single object.


Objects
Unlimited
You can upload as many objects as you want to a folder or container in your account.


PutObject – Standard Upload Availability
100 TPS
The maximum number of operation requests that you can make per second. Additional requests are throttled. You can request a quota increase. In the request, specify the requested TPS and average object size.


PutObject – Streaming Upload Availability
10 TPS
The maximum number of operation requests that you can make per second. Additional requests are throttled. You can request a quota increase. In the request, specify the requested TPS and average object size.


Rules in an Object Lifecycle Policy
10
The maximum number of rules that you can include in an object lifecycle policy.


Rules in a Metric Policy
5
The maximum number of rules that you can include in a metric policy. You can request a quota increase.


