Removing Disks from Your Gateway
Although we don’t recommend removing the underlying disks from your gateway, you might want to remove a disk from your gateway, for example if you have a failed disk.
Removing a Disk from a Gateway Hosted on VMware ESXi
You can use the following procedure to remove a disk from your gateway hosted on VMware hypervisor.
To remove a disk allocated for the upload buffer (VMware ESXi)


In the vSphere client, open the context (right-click) menu, choose the name of your gateway VM, and then choose Edit Settings. 


On the Hardware tab of the Virtual Machine Properties dialog box, select the disk allocated as upload buffer space, and then choose Remove.


Verify that the Virtual Device Node value in the Virtual Machine Properties dialog box has the same value that you noted previously. Doing this helps ensure that you remove the correct disk.


Choose an option in the Removal Options panel, and then choose OK to complete the process of removing the disk.


Removing a Disk from a Gateway Hosted on Microsoft Hyper-V
Using the following procedure, you can remove a disk from your gateway hosted on a Microsoft Hyper-V hypervisor.
To remove an underlying disk allocated for the upload buffer (Microsoft Hyper-V)


In the Microsoft Hyper-V Manager, open the context (right-click) menu, choose the name of your gateway VM, and then choose Settings. 


In the Hardware list of the Settings dialog box, select the disk to remove, and then choose Remove.


The disks you add to a gateway appear under the SCSI Controller entry in the Hardware list. Verify that the Controller and Location value are the same value that you noted previously. Doing this helps ensure that you remove the correct disk. 
The first SCSI controller displayed in the Microsoft Hyper-V Manager is controller 0. 


Choose OK to apply the change.

Removing a Disk from a Gateway Hosted on Linux KVM
To detach a disk from your gateway hosted on Linux Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM) hypervisor, you can use a virsh command similar to the one following. 
$ virsh detach-disk domain_name /device/path
For more details about managing KVM disks, see documentation of your Linux distribution.