List of Amazon SWF commands by category
You can use the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI) to create, display, and manage workflows in Amazon Simple Workflow Service (Amazon SWF).
This section lists the reference topics for Amazon SWF commands in the AWS CLI, grouped by functional category.
For an alphabetic list of commands, see the Amazon SWF section of the AWS CLI Command Reference, or use the following command.
$ aws swf help
You can also get help for an individual command, by placing the help directive after the command name. The following shows an example.
$ aws swf register-domain help
Topics
 Commands related to activities
 Commands related to deciders
 Commands related to workflow executions
 Commands related to administration
 Visibility commands
Commands related to activities
Activity workers use poll-for-activity-task to get new activity tasks. After a worker receives an activity task from Amazon SWF, it performs the task and responds using respond-activity-task-completed if successful or respond-activity-task-failed if unsuccessful.
The following are commands that are performed by activity workers:
 poll-for-activity-task
 respond-activity-task-completed
 respond-activity-task-failed
 respond-activity-task-canceled
 record-activity-task-heartbeat
Commands related to deciders
Deciders use poll-for-decision-task to get decision tasks. After a decider receives a decision task from Amazon SWF, it examines its workflow execution history and decides what to do next. It calls respond-decision-task-completed to complete the decision task and provides zero or more next decisions.
The following are commands that are performed by deciders:
 poll-for-decision-task
 respond-decision-task-completed
Commands related to workflow executions
The following commands operate on a workflow execution:
 request-cancel-workflow-execution
 start-workflow-execution
 signal-workflow-execution
 terminate-workflow-execution
Commands related to administration
Although you can perform administrative tasks from the Amazon SWF console, you can use the commands in this section to automate functions or build your own administrative tools.
Activity management

register-activity-type
deprecate-activity-type

Workflow management

register-workflow-type
deprecate-workflow-type

Domain management

register-domain
deprecate-domain

For more information and examples of these domain management commands, see Working with Amazon SWF domains using the AWS CLI.
Workflow execution management

request-cancel-workflow-execution
terminate-workflow-execution

Visibility commands
Although you can perform visibility actions from the Amazon SWF console, you can use the commands in this section to build your own console or administrative tools.
Activity visibility

list-activity-types
describe-activity-type

Workflow visibility

list-workflow-types
describe-workflow-type

Workflow execution visibility

describe-workflow-execution
list-open-workflow-executions
list-closed-workflow-executions
count-open-workflow-executions
count-closed-workflow-executions
get-workflow-execution-history

Domain visibility

list-domains
describe-domain

For more information and examples of these domain visibility commands, see Working with Amazon SWF domains using the AWS CLI.
Task list visibility

count-pending-activity-tasks
count-pending-decision-tasks
