What is Amazon Chime?
Amazon Chime is a communications service that transforms online meetings with an application that is secure and comprehensive. Amazon Chime works across your devices so that you can stay connected. You can use Amazon Chime for online meetings, video conferencing, calls, and chat. You can also share content inside and outside of your organization. Amazon Chime helps you to work productively from anywhere.
Developers can use Amazon Chime with the AWS SDK or AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI) to perform such tasks as managing users, or integrating webhooks and chat bots with Amazon Chime. They can also use the Amazon Chime SDK to build real-time media applications that can send and receive audio and video and allow content sharing. For detailed information about Amazon Chime API actions, see the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/chime/latest/APIReference/Welcome.html.
Amazon Chime permissions are controlled using AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM). For more information, see Identity and access management for Amazon Chime in the Amazon Chime Administrator Guide.
Pricing
Amazon Chime provides usage-based pricing. You pay only for the users with Pro permissions that host meetings, and only on the days that those meetings are hosted. For more information, see Amazon Chime pricing.
Resources
The following related resources can help you as you work with this service.
  Classes & Workshops – Links to role-based and specialty courses as well as self-paced labs to help sharpen your AWS skills and gain practical experience.
  AWS Developer Tools – Links to developer tools, SDKs, IDE toolkits, and command line tools for developing and managing AWS applications.
  AWS Whitepapers – Links to a comprehensive list of technical AWS whitepapers, covering topics such as architecture, security, and economics and authored by AWS Solutions Architects or other technical experts.
  AWS Support Center – The hub for creating and managing your AWS Support cases. Also includes links to other helpful resources, such as forums, technical FAQs, service health status, and AWS Trusted Advisor.
  AWS Support – The primary web page for information about AWS Support, a one-on-one, fast-response support channel to help you build and run applications in the cloud.
  Contact Us – A central contact point for inquiries concerning AWS billing, account, events, abuse, and other issues. 
  AWS Site Terms – Detailed information about our copyright and trademark; your account, license, and site access; and other topics.