Delete the Directory for Your WorkSpaces
You can delete the directory for your WorkSpaces if it is no longer in use by other WorkSpaces or other applications, such as Amazon WorkDocs, Amazon WorkMail, or Amazon Chime. Note that you must deregister a directory before you can delete it.
What Happens When a Directory Is Deleted
When a Simple AD or AWS Directory Service for Microsoft Active Directory directory is deleted, all of the directory data and snapshots are deleted and cannot be recovered. After the directory is deleted, all instances that are joined to the directory remain intact. You cannot, however, use your directory credentials to log in to these instances. You need to log in to these instances with a user account that is local to the instance.
When an AD Connector directory is deleted, your on-premises directory remains intact. All instances that are joined to the directory also remain intact and remain joined to your on-premises directory. You can still use your directory credentials to log in to these instances.
To delete a directory


Delete all WorkSpaces in the directory. For more information, see Delete a WorkSpace.


Find and remove all of the applications and services that are registered to the directory. For more information, see Delete Your Directory in the AWS Directory Service Administration Guide.


Open the Amazon WorkSpaces console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/workspaces/.


In the navigation pane, choose Directories.


Select the directory and choose Actions, Deregister.


When prompted for confirmation, choose Deregister.


Select the directory again and choose Actions, Delete.


When prompted for confirmation, choose Delete.
Note
Removing application assignments can sometimes take more time than expected. If you receive the following error message, verify that you've removed all application assignments, and then wait 30 to 60 minutes before trying again to delete the directory:  


An Error Has Occurred
   Cannot delete the directory because it still has authorized applications. 
   Additional directory details can be viewed at the Directory Service console.


(Optional) After you delete all resources in the virtual private cloud (VPC) for your directory, you can delete the VPC and release the Elastic IP address used for the NAT gateway. For more information, see  Deleting your VPC and  Working with Elastic IP addresses in the Amazon VPC User Guide.


(Optional) To delete any custom bundles and images that you are finished with, see Delete a Custom WorkSpaces Bundle or Image.

