What Is Secure Packager and Encoder Key Exchange?
Secure Packager and Encoder Key Exchange (SPEKE) defines the standard for communication between encryptors and packagers of media content and digital rights management (DRM) key providers. The specification accommodates encryptors running on-premises and in the AWS Cloud. 
Topics
 General Architecture
 AWS Cloud-Based Architecture
 How to Get Started
General Architecture
The following illustration shows a high-level view of the SPEKE content encryption architecture for on-premises products.

These are the main components of the preceding architecture:
 Encryptor – Provides the encryption technology. Receives encryption requests from its operator, and retrieves the required keys from the DRM key provider to secure the encrypted content. 
 DRM platform key provider – Provides encryption keys to the encryptor through a SPEKE-compliant API. The provider also provides licenses to media players for decryption. 
 Player – Requests keys from the same DRM platform key provider, which the player uses to unlock the content and serve it to its viewers.
AWS Cloud-Based Architecture
The following illustration shows the high-level architecture when SPEKE is used with services and features running in the AWS Cloud.

These are the main services and components:
 Encryptor – Provides the encryption technology in the AWS Cloud. The encryptor receives requests from its operator and retrieves the required encryption keys from the DRM key provider, through Amazon API Gateway, to secure the encrypted content. It delivers the encrypted content to an Amazon S3 bucket or through an Amazon CloudFront distribution. 
 AWS IAM and Amazon API Gateway – Manages customer-trusted roles and proxy communication between the encryptor and the key provider. API Gateway provides logging capabilities and lets customers control their relationships with the encryptor and with the DRM platform. Customers enable key provider access through IAM role configuration. The API Gateway must reside in the same AWS Region as the encryptor.
 AWS Certificate Manager – (Optional) Provides certificate management for content key encryption. Encrypting content keys is the recommended practice for secure communication. The certificate manager must reside in the same AWS Region as the encryptor.
 DRM platform key provider – Provides encryption keys to the encryptor through a SPEKE-compliant API. The provider also provides licenses to media players for decryption. 
 Player – Requests keys from the same DRM platform key provider, which the player uses to unlock the content and serve it to its viewers.
The API Gateway API, the encryptor, and ACM must all reside in the same AWS Region. 
How to Get Started
Are you a customer?
Partner with an AWS Elemental DRM platform provider to get set up to use encryption. For details, see Customer Onboarding.
Are you a DRM platform provider or a customer with your own key provider?
Expose a REST API for your key provider in compliance with the SPEKE specification. For details, see SPEKE API Specification.