Getting help with AWS Billing and Cost Management
There are many resources available for you if have any questions about your AWS Billing and Cost Management console tools, your charges, or payment methods.
Topics
 AWS Knowledge Center
 Contacting AWS Support
 Understanding your charged usage
 Monitoring your Free Tier usage
AWS Knowledge Center
All AWS account owners have access to account and billing support free of charge. You can find answers to your questions quickly by visiting the AWS Knowledge Center.
To find your question or request


Open AWS Knowledge Center at https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/.


Choose Billing Management. 


Scan the list of topics to locate a question that is similar to yours.


Contacting AWS Support
Contacting AWS Support is the fastest and most direct method for communicating with an AWS associate about your questions. AWS Support does not publish a direct phone number for reaching a support representative. You can use the following process to have an associate reach out to you by email or phone instead.
Only personalized technical support requires a support plan. For more information, visit AWS Support.
To open an AWS Support case where you specify Regarding: Account and Billing Support, you must either be signed into AWS as the root account owner, or have IAM permissions to open a support case. For more information, see Accessing AWS Support in the AWS Support User Guide.
If you have closed your AWS account, you can still sign in to AWS Support and view past bills.
To contact AWS Support


Sign in and navigate to the AWS Support Center. If prompted, enter the email address and password for your account. 


Choose Create case. 


On the Create case page, choose Account and billing support and fill in the required fields on the form. 


After you complete the form, under Contact options, choose either Web for an email response, or Phone to request a telephone call from an AWS Support representative. Instant messaging support is not available for billing inquiries. 


To contact AWS Support when you can't sign in to AWS


Recover your password or submit a form at https://support.aws.amazon.com/#/contacts/aws-account-support.


Choose an inquiry type in the Request information section. 


Fill out the How can we help you? section.


Choose Submit.


Understanding your charged usage
If you want to see the usage behind your charged amount, you can check your usage yourself by enabling Cost Explorer. This tool enables you to analyze your costs in depth by providing you with premade reports and graphs.
Cost Explorer is available 24 hours after you activate the feature.
For more information about Cost Explorer, see Analyzing your costs with Cost Explorer.
Monitoring your Free Tier usage
You can track your AWS Free Tier usage to keep you under the Free Tier limits. You can set up alerts on your AWS account when your Free Tier limits reach a threshold, and monitor your usage through the Billing and Cost Management console.
For more information about using these features, see Tracking your AWS Free Tier usage.
To see details for usage that was charged beyond your Free Tier limit, see the Understanding your charged usage section.