Managing your AWS Europe payment methods
You can use the Payment Methods page of the Billing and Cost Management console to perform the following tasks for all payment types:
 View payment methods associated with your account
 Designate a default payment method
 Make a payment
 Remove a payment method from your AWS Europe account
In addition, you can use the Payment Methods page of the Billing and Cost Management console to manage your credit cards and direct debit accounts. For more information, see Managing your credit card payment methods and Managing your SEPA direct debit payment methods.
To view payment methods associated with your AWS account
You can use the console to view the payment methods associated with your account.


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Billing and Cost Management console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/.


In the navigation pane, choose Payment Methods. 


To designate a default payment method


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Billing and Cost Management console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/.


In the navigation pane, choose Payment Methods. 


Next to the payment method that you want to use as your default payment method, choose Make Default.


To make a payment
AWS Europe charges your default payment method automatically at the beginning of each month. If that charge doesn't process successfully, you can use the console to update your payment method and make a payment.
Note
If you pay by SEPA direct debit, AWS provides you with your invoice and initiates the charge to your payment method either the following day or the invoice due date, whichever is latest. It can take up to 5 business days for your payment to succeed. For more information, see Managing your SEPA direct debit payment methods.


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Billing and Cost Management console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/.


In the navigation pane, choose Payment Methods.


On the Payment Methods page, ensure that the payment method that you want to use is set as your default payment method.


If you're using a credit card, confirm that your card hasn't expired.


Choose Make a Payment. You're redirected to the Orders and invoices page.


If your account isn't past due, the Orders and invoices page shows only your previous invoices in the Orders and invoice history section. You don't need to take any action at this time.


If you see a banner that states that you have an overdue payment, choose Verify and pay for the invoice that is overdue in the Payments Due section.


If you pay by SEPA direct debit and you receive an email from AWS Europe saying that AWS Europe can't charge your bank account and will attempt to charge your account again, work with your bank to understand what went wrong. If you receive an email saying that AWS Europe failed the last attempt to charge your bank account, use the Verify and pay button on the console to pay your invoice. If you have questions about issues with charging your bank account or paying an overdue balance, create a case in the Support Center.
If you pay by electronic funds transfer and your account payment is overdue, create a case in the Support Center.
To remove a payment method from your AWS Europe account
You can use the console to remove a payment method from your account.


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Billing and Cost Management console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/.


In the navigation pane, choose Payment Methods.


Ensure that your account has another valid payment method set as the default.


Next to the payment method that you want to remove, choose Delete.


In the Delete Credit Card or Delete your bank account dialog box, choose Delete.

