Managing an account in India
If you sign up for a new account and choose India for your contact address, your user agreement is with Amazon Internet Services Pvt. Ltd (AISPL), a local AWS seller in India. AISPL manages your billing, and your invoice total is listed in rupees instead of dollars. After you create an account with AISPL, you can't change the country in your contact information. 
If you have an existing account with an India address, your account is either with AWS or AISPL, depending on when you opened the account. To learn whether your account is with AWS or AISPL, see the procedure Determining Which Company Your Account is With. If you are an existing AWS customer, you can continue to use your AWS account. You also can choose to have both an AWS account and an AISPL account, though they can't be consolidated into the same payment family. For information about managing an AWS account, see Managing an AWS account. 
If your account is with AISPL, follow the procedures in this chapter to manage your account. This chapter explains how to sign up for an AISPL account, edit information about your AISPL account, and add or edit your Permanent Account Number (PAN). 
As part of the credit card verification during signup, AISPL charges your credit card 2 INR. AISPL refunds the 2 INR after verification is done. You might be redirected to your bank as part of the verification process.
Topics
 Determining Which Company Your Account is With
 Signing up for AISPL
 Managing your AISPL account
Determining which company your account is with
AWS services are provided by both AWS and AISPL. Use this procedure to determine which seller your account is with.
To determine which company your account is with


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Billing and Cost Management console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/.


In the page footer, look at the copyright notice. If the copyright is for Amazon Web Services, Inc., then your account is with AWS. If the copyright is for Amazon Internet Services Private Ltd., then your account is with AISPL.


Signing up for AISPL
AISPL is a local seller of AWS. Use the following procedure to sign up for an AISPL account if your contact address is in India.
To sign up for an AISPL account
If your contact address is in India and you want to open an account, you sign up with AISPL instead of AWS.


Go to https://console.aws.amazon.com/, and then choose Sign In to the Console.


On the Sign In page, type the email address that you want to use.


Under your email address, select I am a new user, and then choose Sign in using our secure server.


For each of the login credential fields, type your information, and then choose Create account.


For each of the contact information fields, type your information.


After you have read the customer agreement, select the terms and conditions check box, and then choose Create Account and Continue.


On the Payment Information page, enter the payment method that you want to use.


Under PAN Information, choose No if you do not have a Permanent Account Number (PAN) or want to add it later. If you have a PAN and want to add it now, choose Yes, and in the PAN field type your PAN.


Choose Verify Card and Continue. You must provide your CVV as part of the verification process. AISPL charges your card 2 INR as part of the verification process. AISPL refunds the 2 INR after verification is done.


For Provide a telephone number, type your phone number. If you have a phone extension, for Ext, type your phone extension.


Choose Call Me Now. After a few moments, a four-digit pin will appear on your screen.


Accept the automated call from AISPL. On your phone keypad, type the four-digit pin displayed on your screen.


Once the automated call verifies your contact number, choose Continue to Select Your Support Plan.


On the Support Plan page, select your support plan, and then choose Continue. After your payment method is verified and your account is activated, you receive an email confirming the activation of your account.


Managing your AISPL account
Use the Account Settings and Tax Settings pages of the Billing and Cost Management console to perform the following tasks:
 Edit your user name, password, or email address
 Edit your contact information
 Add, update, or remove alternate contacts
 Add or edit a Permanent Account Number (PAN)
 Edit multiple Permanent Account Numbers (PANs)
 Edit multiple Goods and Services Tax Numbers (GSTs)
 View a tax invoice
To edit your user name, password, or email address
You can change the name, password, and email address associated with your AISPL account.


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Billing and Cost Management console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/.


On the navigation bar, choose your account name, and then choose https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/account.


Next to Account Settings, choose Edit.


Next to the field that you want to update, choose Edit.


After you have entered your changes, choose Save changes.


After you have made your changes, choose Done.


To edit your contact information
You can change the contact information associated with your AISPL account, including your mailing address, telephone number, and website address. You cannot change your country.


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Billing and Cost Management console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/.


On the navigation bar, choose your account name, and then choose https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/account.


Under Contact Information, choose Edit.


For the fields that you want to change, type your updated information, and then choose Update.


Note
You can choose to add an email address for billing in the Alternate Contacts section to have AISPL send a copy of billing-related emails to that email address. For example, AISPL sends a copy of your monthly bill to your Billing contact address.
To add, update, or remove alternate contacts
You can add alternate contacts to your account. Alternate contacts enable AISPL to contact another person about issues with your account, even if you are unavailable. 


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Billing and Cost Management console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/.


On the navigation bar, choose your account name, and then choose https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/account.


Scroll down to the Alternate Contacts section, and then choose Edit.


For the fields that you want to change, type your updated information, and then choose Update.


To add or edit a PAN
You can add your Permanent Account Number (PAN) to your account and edit it. 


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Billing and Cost Management console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/.


In the navigation pane, choose Tax Settings.


On the Tax Settings navigation bar, choose Edit.


For Permanent Account Number (PAN), enter your PAN, and then choose Update.


To edit multiple PAN numberss
You can edit multiple Permanent Account Numbers (PANs) in your account. 


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Billing and Cost Management console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/.


In the navigation pane, choose Tax Settings.


Under Manage Tax Registration Numbers, select the PAN numbers that you want to edit.


For Manage Tax Registration, choose Edit.


Update the fields that you want to change, and then choose Update.


To edit multiple GST numbers
You can edit multiple Goods and Services Tax numbers (GSTs) in your account. 


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Billing and Cost Management console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/.


On the navigation pane, choose Tax Settings.


Under Manage Tax Registration Numbers, select the GST numbers that you want to edit or choose Edit all.


For Manage Tax Registration, choose Edit.


Update the fields that you want to change and choose Update.


To view a tax invoice
You can view your tax invoices in the console. 


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Billing and Cost Management console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/billing/home#/.


On the navigation pane, choose Bills.


Under Summary, under Credits and Tax Invoices, choose Tax Invoices.


Choose an invoice hyperlink.


Note
The Tax Invoices is only visible if there are tax invoices available.