Sign in to the Puppet Enterprise Console
After you have downloaded the sign-in credentials from the Puppet master's Properties page, and the server is online, sign in to the Puppet Enterprise console. In this walkthrough, we instructed you to specify your control repository that contains your modules, and add at least one node to manage. This allows you to see information about the agent and nodes in the console.
The Puppet Enterprise console uses a certificate signed by PE’s built-in certificate authority (CA). Because this CA is specific to PE, your browser might not trust it, and you might have to add a security exception to access the console. For more information about troubleshooting certificate errors and adding exceptions in common web browsers, see the following.
 For Mozilla Firefox, see Troubleshoot the "Secure Connection Failed" error message on the Mozilla support website.
 For Google Chrome, see Browser displays connection untrusted error on the Google support website.
 For Microsoft Internet Explorer, see Certificate Errors: FAQ on the Microsoft support website.
To sign in to the Puppet Enterprise console


Unzip and open the Puppet Enterprise credentials that you downloaded in Prerequisites. You will need these credentials to sign in.


In the AWS Management Console, open the Properties page for your Puppet server.


At the upper right of the Properties page, choose Open Puppet Enterprise console.



Sign in using the credentials from Step 1.



In the Puppet Enterprise console, you can view detailed information about the nodes you're managing, module run progress and events, the compliance level of nodes, and much more. For more information about the features of the Puppet Enterprise console and how to use them, see Viewing node-specific information in the Puppet Enterprise documentation.



Group and Classify Nodes
Before you specify the desired configuration of your nodes by applying classes to them, group the nodes according to their roles in your enterprise or their common characteristics. Grouping and classifying nodes involves the following high-level tasks. You can complete these tasks by using the PE console. For detailed information about how to group and classify your nodes, see Grouping and classifying nodes in the Puppet Enterprise documentation.


Create node groups.


Add nodes to groups manually or automatically by applying rules that you create.


Assign classes to node groups.


Reset Administrator and User Passwords
For information about how to change the password that you use to sign in to the Puppet Enterprise console, see Reset the Admin Password in the Puppet Enterprise documentation.
By default, after ten sign-in attempts, users are locked out of the Puppet console. For more information about how to reset user passwords in the event of a lockout, see Password endpoints in the Puppet Enterprise documentation.