How do I create a lifecycle policy for an S3 Bucket?
You can use lifecycle policies to define actions that you want Amazon S3 to take during an object's lifetime (for example, transition objects to another storage class, archive them, or delete them after a specified period of time).
You can define a lifecycle policy for all objects or a subset of objects in the bucket by using a shared prefix (objects names that begin with a common string) or a tag. 
Using a lifecycle policy, you can define actions specific to current and noncurrent object versions. For more information, see Object Lifecycle Management and Object Versioning and Using Versioning in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide.
To create a lifecycle policy


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon S3 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/.


In the Buckets list, choose the name of the bucket that you want to create a lifecycle policy for.


Choose the Management tab, and choose Add lifecycle rule.



In the Lifecycle rule dialog box, type a name for your rule. 


The name must be unique within the bucket. 


Choose the scope of the lifecycle rule: all objects with a specific prefix or tag or all the objects in the bucket.
    To apply this lifecycle rule to all objects with a specific prefix or tag, choose Limit the scope to specific prefixes or tags. In the Add prefix or tag filter box, type the prefix or tag name, and press Enter.  For more information about object name prefixes, see Object Keys in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide.For more information about object tags, see Object Tagging in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide. 

    To apply this lifecycle rule to all objects in the bucket, choose Apply to all objects in the bucket.


Choose Next.


The Storage class transition page opens. When you configure your storage class transitions, you define the rules to transition objects to the Standard-IA, One Zone-IA, Glacier, and Deep Archive storage classes. For more information, see Storage Classes in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide. You can define transitions for current or previous object versions or for both current and previous versions. Versioning enables you to keep multiple versions of an object in one bucket. For more information about versioning, see How do I enable or suspend versioning for an S3 bucket?.


Choose the versions for which you want to define transitions, current or noncurrent:
    To define transitions that are applied to the current verion of the object, choose Current version. 
    To define transitions that are applied to all previous versions of the object, choose Previous versions.
In the screenshot below, Current version is chosen.



To add a transition: 


For a current version, under For current object versions, choose Add transition.


For a non-current version, under For non-current object versions, choose Add transition.


For each transition that you add, choose one of the following:
    Transition to Standard-IA after.
    Transition to Intelligent-Tiering after. 
    Transition to One Zone-IA after. 
    Transition to Glacier after.
    Transition to Glacier Deep Archive after.

Important
When you choose the Glacier or Glacier Deep Archive storage class, your objects remain in Amazon S3. You cannot access them directly through the separate Amazon S3 Glacier service. For more information, see Transitioning Objects Using Amazon S3 Lifecycle. 


In the Days after creation box, enter the number of days after the creation of the object that you want the transition to be applied (for example, 30 or 100 days).


When you are done configuring transitions, choose Next.



Under Configure expiration, for this example, choose both Current version and Previous versions. 
Important
In a non-versioned bucket the expiration action results in Amazon S3 permanently removing the object. For more information about lifecycle actions, see Elements to describe lifecycle actions in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide.


Choose Expire current version of object, and then enter the number of days after object creation to delete the object (for example, 395 days).


If you choose this expire option, you cannot choose the option to clean up expired delete markers. 


Choose Permanently delete previous versions, and then enter the number of days after an object becomes a previous version to permanently delete the object (for example, 465 days).


To clean up incomplete multipart uploads, we recommend that you choose Clean up incomplete multipart uploads and enter the number of days after the multipart upload initiation that you want to end and clean up incomplete multipart uploads(for example, 7 days). 


For more information about multipart uploads, see Multipart Upload Overview in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide.


Choose Next.



For Review, verify the settings for your rule. If you need to make changes, choose Previous. Otherwise, choose Save. 


If the rule does not contain any errors, it is enabled and you can see it on the Lifecycle page. 
