Making an Amazon EBS volume available for use on Windows
After you attach an Amazon EBS volume to your instance, it is exposed as a block device, and appears as a removable disk in Windows. You can format the volume with any file system and then mount it. After you make the EBS volume available for use, you can access it in the same ways that you access any other volume. Any data written to this file system is written to the EBS volume and is transparent to applications using the device.
You can take snapshots of your EBS volume for backup purposes or to use as a baseline when you create another volume. For more information, see Amazon EBS snapshots.
You can get directions for volumes on a Linux instance from Making a Volume Available for Use on Linux in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances.
You can make an EBS volume available for use using the Disk Management utility and the DiskPart command line tool.
To make an EBS volume available for use using the Disk Management utility


Log in to your Windows instance using Remote Desktop. For more information, see Connecting to your Windows instance.


Start the Disk Management utility. On the taskbar, open the context (right-click) menu for the Windows logo and choose Disk Management.
Note
On Windows Server 2008, choose Start, Administrative Tools, Computer Management, Disk Management.


Bring the volume online. In the lower pane, open the context (right-click) menu for the left panel for the disk for the EBS volume. Choose Online.



(Conditional) You must initialize the disk before you can use it.
Warning
If you're mounting a volume that already has data on it (for example, a public data set, or a volume that you created from a snapshot), do not reformat the volume or you will delete the existing data.


If the disk is not initialized, initialize it as follows. Open the context (right-click) menu for the left panel for the disk and choose Initialize Disk. In the Initialize Disk dialog box, select a partition style and choose OK.


Open the context (right-click) menu for the right panel for the disk and choose New Simple Volume. Complete the wizard.


To make an EBS volume available for use using the DiskPart command line tool


Log in to your Windows instance using Remote Desktop. For more information, see Connecting to your Windows instance.


Create a new script file named diskpart.txt.


Add the following commands to the script file and specify the volume label and drive letter. This script configures the volume to use the master boot record (MBR) partition structure, formats the volume as an NTFS volume, sets the volume label, and assigns it a drive letter.
Warning
If you're mounting a volume that already has data on it, do not reformat the volume or you will delete the existing data.


select disk 1 
   attributes disk clear readonly 
   online disk 
   convert mbr 
   create partition primary 
   format quick fs=ntfs label="volume_label" 
   assign letter="drive_letter"
For more information, see DiskPart Syntax and Parameters.

Navigate to the folder in which the script is located and execute the following command:

C:\> diskpart /s diskpart.txt