Create a Windows AMI from a running instance
You can create an AMI using the AWS Management Console or the command line. The following diagram summarizes the process for creating an AMI from a running EC2 instance. Start with an existing AMI, launch an instance, customize it, create a new AMI from it, and finally launch an instance of your new AMI. The steps in the following diagram match the steps in the procedure below. If you already have a running Windows instance, you can go directly to step 4.

To create an AMI from an instance using the console


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


In the navigation pane, choose Images, AMIs.


Use the Filter options to scope the list of AMIs to the Windows AMIs that meet your needs. For example, to view the Windows AMIs provided by AWS, choose Public images from the drop-down list. Choose the Search bar. Choose Owner from the menu and choose Amazon images. Choose Source from the menu and type one of the following, depending on the version of Windows Server that you need:
    amazon/Windows_Server-2019
    amazon/Windows_Server-2016
    amazon/Windows_Server-2012
    amazon/Windows_Server-2008


Add any other filters that you need. When you have chosen an AMI, select its checkbox.


Choose Launch. Accept the default values as you step through the wizard. For more information, see Launching an instance using the Launch Instance Wizard. When the instance is ready, connect to it. For more information, see Connecting to your Windows instance.


You can perform any of the following actions on your instance to customize it for your needs:
    Install software and applications
    Copy data
    Reduce start time by deleting temporary files, defragmenting your hard drive, and zeroing out free space
    Attach additional EBS volumes
    Create a new user account and add it to the Administrators group
If you are sharing your AMI, these credentials can be supplied for RDP access without disclosing your default administrator password.
    [Windows Server 2016 and later] Configure settings using EC2Launch. To generate a random password at launch time, use the adminPasswordType setting. For more information, see Configuring EC2Launch.
    [Windows Server 2012 R2 and earlier] Configure settings using EC2Config. To generate a random password at launch time, enable the Ec2SetPassword plugin; otherwise, the current administrator password is used. For more information, see EC2Config Settings Files.
    [Windows Server 2008 R2] If the instance uses RedHat drivers to access Xen virtualized hardware, upgrade to Citrix drivers before you create an AMI. For more information, see Upgrade Windows Server 2008 and 2008 R2 Instances (Redhat to Citrix PV Upgrade).


In the navigation pane, choose Instances and select your instance. Choose Actions, Image, and Create Image.
Tip
If this option is disabled, your instance isn't an Amazon EBS-backed instance.


Specify a unique name for the image and an optional description (up to 255 characters).


By default, Amazon EC2 shuts down the instance, takes snapshots of any attached volumes, creates and registers the AMI, and then reboots the instance. Choose No reboot if you don't want your instance to be shut down.
Warning
If you choose No reboot, we can't guarantee the file system integrity of the created image.
(Optional) Modify the root volume, Amazon EBS volumes, and instance store volumes as needed. For example:
    To change the size of the root volume, locate the Root volume in the Type column, and fill in the Size field.
    To suppress an Amazon EBS volume specified by the block device mapping of the AMI used to launch the instance, locate the EBS volume in the list and choose Delete.
    To add an Amazon EBS volume, choose Add New Volume, Type, and EBS, and fill in the fields. When you then launch an instance from your new AMI, these additional volumes are automatically attached to the instance. Empty volumes must be formatted and mounted. Volumes based on a snapshot must be mounted.
    To suppress an instance store volume specified by the block device mapping of the AMI used to launch the instance, locate the volume in the list and choose Delete.
    To add an instance store volume, choose Add New Volume, Type, and Instance Store, and select a device name from the Device list. When you launch an instance from your new AMI, these additional volumes are automatically initialized and mounted. These volumes don't contain data from the instance store volumes of the running instance from which you based your AMI.
When you are finished, choose Create Image.

While your AMI is being created, you can choose AMIs in the navigation pane to view its status. Initially, this is pending. After a few minutes, the status should change to available.

(Optional) Choose Snapshots in the navigation pane to view the snapshot that was created for the new AMI. When you launch an instance from this AMI, we use this snapshot to create its root device volume.

Launch an instance from your new AMI. For more information, see Launching an instance using the Launch Instance Wizard. The new running instance contains all of the customizations you applied in previous steps, and any additional customization you add when launching the instance, such as user data (scripts that run when the instance starts).

To create an AMI from an instance using the command line
You can use one of the following commands. For more information about these command line interfaces, see Accessing Amazon EC2.
 create-image (AWS CLI)
 New-EC2Image (AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell)