Individual student setup for AWS Cloud9
This topic explains how to set up to use AWS Cloud9 as a student, with you as the only individual using your account with AWS. To set up to use AWS Cloud9 for any other usage pattern, see Setting up AWS Cloud9 for the correct instructions. To learn about who qualifies as a student, see Who can join AWS Educate on the AWS Educate Frequently Asked Questions website.
  Step 1: Create an AWS Educate Starter Account 
 Step 2: Use an AWS Educate Starter Account to sign in to the AWS Cloud9 console
  Next steps
Step 1: Create an AWS Educate Starter Account
In this step, you create an AWS Educate Starter Account, which you can then use to access AWS Cloud9.
For an AWS Educate Starter account, note the following:
 You must be an eligible student.
 You don't need a credit card.
 There are some restrictions on AWS usage in the account.
 The account isn't eligible for the AWS Free Tier.
 After you graduate, you can no longer keep using the account.
 You can't link the account to any other account.
 You can't apply any additional AWS promotional credit to the account.
 AWS resources that you create in the account will stop working after all AWS promotional credit is used.
 If the account runs out of AWS promotional credit, the account is deactivated.
 You can't turn the account into a regular AWS account.
Create an AWS Educate Starter Account
If you already have an AWS Educate Starter Account, skip ahead to Step 2: Use an AWS Educate Starter Account to sign in to the AWS Cloud9 console.


Go to the Apply for AWS Educate website, at https://www.awseducate.com/registration#INFO-Student.


Choose the Student role.


On the Tell us about yourself page, follow the on-screen instructions. Provide information such as the educational institution that you attend and your student email address. Leave Promo Code blank.


Complete the security challenge, and then choose Next.


Review and agree to the AWS Educate program's terms and conditions. AWS will send you an email with the title Email Verification - AWS Educate Application. Choose the link in that email to confirm your email address.


After you complete the application process, AWS will send you an email with the title Thank You for Applying for AWS Educate. This email includes details such as how to check the status of your application and how to contact AWS Educate support with any questions.


After AWS Educate approves your application, AWS will send you an email with the title AWS Educate Application Approved. Note that the approval process might take a day or longer. Do not go past this step in this procedure until you get this approval.


After you get the approval email, follow the instructions in the email to set your AWS Educate Student Portal password, and then sign in to your AWS Educate Student Portal. After you set your AWS Educate Student Portal password, store that password in a secure location.


Go to Step 2: Use an AWS Educate Starter Account to sign in to the AWS Cloud9 console.


Step 2: Use an AWS Educate Starter Account to sign in to the AWS Cloud9 console


Go to the AWS Educate Site Login website, at https://www.awseducate.com/signin/.


Enter the email address and password that you use to sign in to your AWS Educate Student Portal, and then choose Sign In.


Select AWS Account from the top navigation banner.


Select AWS Educate Starter Account.
Note
If this is your first time logging in, select Create Starter Account to activate your AWS Educate Starter Account, and then select AWS Educate Starter Account.
First-time users of the AWS Educate Starter Account also need to agree to the Vocareum terms and conditions.


Choose AWS Console.


Do one of the following:
    Choose Cloud9, if it's already displayed.
    Expand All services, and then choose Cloud9.
    In the Find services box, type Cloud9, and then press Enter.
    In the AWS navigation bar, choose Services, and then choose Cloud9.


You can now start using AWS Cloud9. Go to Next Steps.
Next steps




Task for learning
See this topic




Learn how to use the AWS Cloud9 IDE.
Getting Started: Basic Tutorials and Working with the IDE







More advanced task
See this topic




Create an AWS Cloud9 development environment, and then use the AWS Cloud9 IDE to work with code in your new environment.
Creating an Environment


Invite others to use your new environment along with you, in real time and with text chat support.
Working with Shared Environments


