Phase 2: Migrate
The migrate phase has the following steps:
 Connect Migration Tools to Migration Hub.
 Migrate Using the Connected Migration Tools.
Topics
 Migrate Step 1: Connect Migration Tools to Migration Hub
 Migrate Step 2: Migrate Using the Connected Migration Tools
Migrate Step 1: Connect Migration Tools to Migration Hub

Migration happens outside Migration Hub using AWS migration tools or integrated partners' migration tools. You choose these tools through the Tools page in the Migrate section in Migration Hub.
The table following lists the supported tools.



Resource type
Migration tool name




Server
AWS Server Migration Service CloudEndure Migration ATADATA ATAmotion RiverMeadow Migration SaaS


Database
AWS Database Migration Service



The preceding tools communicate directly to Migration Hub giving an aggregated view of their migrated progress and status so they can be tracked through Migration Hub.
The following steps walk you through connecting (authorizing) your selected migration tool.
To connect (authorize) a migration tool


In the navigation pane under Migrate, choose Tools.


Decide upon which AWS migration tools or integrated partners' tools to migrate your application.


Choose Connect in the box to authorize the migration tool you selected to communicate with Migration Hub. 


AWS migration tools utilize a one-click authorization process which automatically adds the required permissions role once you choose Connect.


Integrated partners' tools take you to their website when you choose Connect where you will be instructed on how to complete authorization.


Note
Note that if you are using API's or do not want to authorize through Migration Hub's console, you can learn about manual role creation in New User IAM Setup.
Migrate Step 2: Migrate Using the Connected Migration Tools

The following steps walk you through the migration of a previously defined application.
To migrate an application


In the navigation pane under Migrate, choose Tools.


If you connected (authorized) an AWS migration tool, choose the console link. If you connected (authorized) an integrated partner's tool, choose the website link.


When you have been linked to either the tool's console or website, follow the migration instructions for your selected migration tool as migration happens outside of Migration Hub.


When your application's migration has started, return to Migration Hub.



Next steps
Once you have completed the two steps of the Migrate phase, proceed to
 Phase 3: Track