Phase 3: Track
In the track phase, you track the status of migrations.
 Track Status of Migrations.
Topics
 Track Step 1: Track Status of Migrations
Track Step 1: Track Status of Migrations
To track an application's migration status


When your application's migration has started, return to Migration Hub and choose Dashboard.


In the top pane labeled Most recently updated applications, click inside the donut chart labeled with the name of your migrating application. This displays the application's detail screen.


If you do not see all of your application's servers listed in the application's details page, it might be because you have not grouped those servers into this application yet. If you do not see the migration status of a server, automapping to discovered servers may have mapped to the wrong server and you need to manually edit the mapping. See Updates About My Migrations Don't Appear Inside an Application.


The first time a migration task is started for a server associated with the application, applications with this status will change to the in-progress status, automatically. After verifying the in-progress migration status from the application's detail screen, if the status is still Not started, you can manually change it to In-progress. Choose Change status in the upper, right-hand corner.


Select the radio button next to In-progress in the dialog box.


Choose Save. A green confirmation message appears at the top of the screen, and the status label changes to In-progress.


Continue to monitor the application's migration status from the data presented in the application's detail screen by refreshing your browser or by clicking the refresh button preceding the server table on the application details page.


When the data in the application's detail screen indicates migration has completed, and you've performed testing and verification, you will want to change the status from "In-progress" to "Completed". Choose Change status in the top right corner of the page.


Select the radio button next to Completed in the pop-up list box.


Choose Save. A green confirmation message appears at the top of the screen, and the status label changes to Completed.

