Troubleshooting AWS Migration Hub
Following, you can find information on how to troubleshoot issues for AWS Migration Hub.
Topics
 My Migrations Do Not Appear in Migration Hub
 Updates About My Migrations Don't Appear Inside an Application
 My API Call Failed
 Errors Enabling Data Collection
My Migrations Do Not Appear in Migration Hub
If you are not seeing your applications' migration status updates on the Updates page in Migration Hub, it could be due to one of the following reasons:
 You have not selected a home region or you are not currently viewing the home region console.
 Migration tools are not authorized to communicate with Migration Hub.
 You do not have the necessary policies and roles set up in IAM.
 Migration status mapping is incorrect or needs to be done manually.
Authentication
To make sure authentication is occurring correctly:
 Check whether the migration tools you are using have been authorized to communicate with Migration Hub. For more information, see steps to authorize a migration tool.
 Check the Tools page to see the status of connected tools. Learn more about setting up necessary policies and roles in Required Managed Policies.
Migration Status Matching When Using AWS Discovery Tools

Check whether a migration update must be manually mapped or was incorrectly mapped to a discovered serve., See Tracking Migration Updates.

Updates About My Migrations Don't Appear Inside an Application
If you are not seeing your migration updates associated with an application, it could be due to one of the following reasons:
 Servers not being grouped as an application.
 Migration update status not being refreshed.
 Migration updates are not mapped or are incorrectly mapped to a server.
Servers' Application Grouping

Check whether all your servers have been grouped into an application. See steps to group servers into applications.

Update Status

The application details page requires you to refresh the page in order to see the latest status. See steps to track status of migrations.

Update and Server Mapping

Check whether the update is present on Updates page.
If not on the Updates page, then check whether the migration tool was authorized by looking on the Migration Tools page - in the navigation pane, under Migrate, choose Tools.
On the Updates page, verify that the update is mapped to the correct server (it will show "Edit" in "Mapped servers" column).
If mapped to a server on the Updates page, then verify whether the server is grouped into an application on the Servers page with an application name present in the "Applications" column.

My API Call Failed

Check whether you called GetHomeRegion before your call, if required.
You can use the AWS Migration Hub home region APIs within your home region only. API calls originating from outside your home region are rejected, except for the ability to register your agents and connectors.

Errors Enabling Data Collection
Although you can register discovery agents and connectors outside of your AWS Migration Hub home region, you cannot start data collection outside the home region. The Application Discovery Service StartDataCollection API call prevents you from enabling data collection outside the home region. 