Configuring server-side encryption (SSE) for a queue (console)
To protect the data in a queue's messages, you can enable server-side encryption (SSE) for a queue. Amazon SQS integrates with the AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) to manage customer master keys (CMKs) for server-side encryption (SSE). For information about using SSE, see Encryption at rest.
The CMK that you assign to your queue must have a key policy that includes permissions for all principals that are authorized to use the queue. For information, see Key Management.
If you aren't the owner of the CMK, or if you log in with an account that doesn't have kms:ListAliases and kms:DescribeKey permissions, you won't be able to view information about the CMK on the Amazon SQS console. Ask the owner of the CMK to grant you these permissions. For more information, see Key Management.
When you create or edit a queue, you can configure SSE.
To configure SSE for an existing queue (console)


Open the Amazon SQS console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/sqs/.


In the navigation pane, choose Queues.


Choose a queue and choose Edit. 


Scroll to the Encryption section.


In the Encryption section, choose Enabled to enable SSE.


The console displays the Description, the Account, and the CMK ARN of the CMK.


Specify the CMK ID for the queue. For more information, see Key terms.


Choose the Choose a CMK alias option.


The default key is the AWS managed CMK for Amazon SQS. To use this key, choose it from the Customer master key list. 



To use a custom CMK from your AWS account, choose it from the Customer master key list. For instructions on creating custom CMKs, see Creating Keys in the AWS Key Management Service Developer Guide.


To use a custom CMK that is not in the list, or a custom CMK from another AWS account, choose Enter the CMK alias and enter the CMK Amazon Resource Name (ARN).


(Optional) For Data key reuse period, specify a value between 1 minute and 24 hours. The default is 5 minutes. For more information, see Understanding the data key reuse period.


When you finish configuring SSE, choose Save.

