Getting started with Amazon SQS
This section helps you become more familiar with Amazon SQS by showing you how to manage queues and messages using the Amazon SQS console.
Topics
 Prerequisites
 Step 1: Create a queue
 Step 2: Send a message
 Step 3: Receive and delete your message
 Step 4: Delete your queue
 Next steps
Prerequisites
Before you begin, complete the steps in Setting up Amazon SQS.
Step 1: Create a queue
The first and most common Amazon SQS task is creating queues. This procedure shows how to create and configure a FIFO queue.


Open the Amazon SQS console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/sqs/.


Choose Create queue.


On the Create queue page, ensure that you set the correct region.


The Standard queue type is selected by default. Choose FIFO.


You can't change the queue type after you create a queue. 


Enter a Name for your queue. The name of a FIFO queue must end with the .fifo suffix.


To create your queue with the default parameters, scroll to the bottom and choose Create Queue. Amazon SQS creates the queue and displays the queue's Details page. 


Amazon SQS propagates information about the new queue across the system. Because Amazon SQS is a distributed system, you may experience a slight delay before the queue is displayed on the Queues page. 
Step 2: Send a message
After you create your queue, you can send a message to it.


From the left navigation pane, choose Queues. From the queue list, select the queue that you created.


From Actions, choose Send and receive messages.



The console displays the Send and receive messages page.


Enter text in the Message body


Enter a Message group id for the queue. For more information, see FIFO delivery logic. 


(Optional) Enter a Message deduplication id. If you enable content-based deduplication, the message deduplication ID is not required. For more information, see FIFO delivery logic.


Choose Send message.


Your message is sent and the console displays a success message. Choose View details to display information about the sent message.

Step 3: Receive and delete your message
After you send a message to a queue, you can retrieve the message from the queue. When you request messages from a queue, you can't specify which message to retrieve. Instead, you specify the maximum number of messages (up to 10) that you want to retrieve.


From the Queues page, select a queue.


From Queue Actions, select Send and receive messages.



The console displays the Send and receive messages page.

Choose Poll for messages.

Amazon SQS begins to poll servers to find messages in the queue. The progress bar on the right side of the Receive messages section displays the polling duration.
The Messages section displays a list of the received messages. For each message, the list displays the message ID, sent date, size, and receive count.


To delete messages, select the messages that you want to delete and then choose Delete.


In the Delete Messages dialog box, choose Delete.


Step 4: Delete your queue


From the queue list, select the queue that you have created.


From the Queues page, select the queue to delete. 


Choose Delete queue.


The console displays the Delete queue dialog box.


In the Delete queue dialog box, confirm the deletion by entering delete.


Choose Delete.


Next steps
Now that you've created a queue and learned how to send, receive, and delete messages and how to delete a queue, you might want to try the following:
  Configure queues, including SSE and other features.
 Send a message with attributes.
 Send a message from a VPC.
 Learn more about Amazon SQS workflows and processes: Read How Queues Work, Best Practices, and Quotas. You can also explore the Amazon SQS Articles & Tutorials. If you ever have any questions, browse the Amazon SQS FAQs or participate in the Amazon SQS Developer Forums.
 Learn how to interact with Amazon SQS programmatically: Read Working with APIs and explore the Sample Code and Libraries and the developer centers:
   Java
   JavaScript
   PHP
   Python
   Ruby
   Windows & .NET
 Learn about keeping an eye on costs and resources in the Automating and troubleshooting Amazon SQS queues section.
 Learn about protecting your data and access to it in the Security section.