How Amazon Translate Works with IAM
You can manage access to Amazon Translate operations and resources with AWS Identity and Access Management. Before you use AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) to manage access to Amazon Translate, you should understand which IAM features are available to use with Amazon Translate. To get a high-level view of how Amazon Translate and other AWS services work with IAM, see AWS Services That Work with IAM in the IAM User Guide.
Topics
 Amazon Translate Identity-Based Policies
 Amazon Translate Resource-Based Policies
 Authorization Based on Amazon Translate Tags
 Amazon Translate IAM Roles
Amazon Translate Identity-Based Policies
With IAM identity-based policies, you can specify allowed or denied actions and resources as well as the conditions under which actions are allowed or denied. Amazon Translate supports specific actions, resources, and condition keys. To learn about all of the elements that you use in a JSON policy, see IAM JSON Policy Elements Reference in the IAM User Guide.
Actions
The Action element of an IAM identity-based policy describes the specific action or actions that will be allowed or denied by the policy. Policy actions usually have the same name as the associated AWS API operation. The action is used in a policy to grant permissions to perform the associated operation. 
Policy actions in Amazon Translate use the following prefix before the action: translate:. For example, to grant someone permission to perform a translation with the Amazon Translate TranslateText API operation, log in as an admin and include the translate:TranslateText action in their policy. Policy statements must include either an Action or NotAction element. Amazon Translate defines its own set of actions that describe tasks that you can perform with this service. To see a list of Amazon Translate actions, see Actions Defined by Amazon Translate in the IAM User Guide.
To specify multiple actions in a single statement, separate them with commas as follows:
"Action": [
      "translate:action1",
      "translate:action2"
Resources
Amazon Translate doesn't support specifying resource Amazon Resource Names (ARNs) in a policy.
Condition Keys
Amazon Translate doesn't provide any service-specific condition keys, but it does support using some global condition keys. To see all AWS global condition keys, see AWS Global Condition Context Keys in the IAM User Guide.
The Condition element (or Condition block) lets you specify conditions in which a statement is in effect. The Condition element is optional. You can build conditional expressions that use condition operators, such as equals or less than, to match the condition in the policy with values in the request. 
If you specify multiple Condition elements in a statement, or multiple keys in a single Condition element, AWS evaluates them using a logical AND operation. If you specify multiple values for a single condition key, AWS evaluates the condition using a logical OR operation. All of the conditions must be met before the statement's permissions are granted.
You can also use placeholder variables when you specify conditions. For example, you can grant an IAM user permission to access a resource only if it is tagged with their IAM user name. For more information, see IAM Policy Elements: Variables and Tags in the IAM User Guide. 
Examples
To see examples of Amazon Translate identity-based policies, see Amazon Translate Identity-based Policy Examples.
Amazon Translate Resource-Based Policies
Amazon Translate doesn't support resource-based policies.
Authorization Based on Amazon Translate Tags
Amazon Translate doesn't support tagging resources or controlling access based on tags.
Amazon Translate IAM Roles
An IAM role is an entity within your AWS account that has specific permissions.
Using Temporary Credentials with Amazon Translate
You can use temporary credentials to sign in with federation, assume an IAM role, or to assume a cross-account role. You obtain temporary security credentials by calling AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) API operations such as AssumeRole or GetFederationToken. 
Amazon Translate supports using temporary credentials. 
Service-Linked Roles
Service-linked roles allow AWS services to access resources in other services to complete an action on your behalf. Service-linked roles appear in your IAM account and are owned by the service. An IAM administrator can view, but not edit. the permissions for service-linked roles.
Amazon Translate doesn't support service-linked roles.