Prerequisites for stack set operations
Because stack sets perform stack operations across multiple accounts, before you can create your first stack set you need the necessary permissions defined in your AWS accounts.
To set up the required permissions for creating a stack set with self-managed permissions, see Grant self-managed permissions.
To set up the required permissions for creating a stack set with service-managed permissions, see Enable Trusted Access with AWS Organizations.
Performing stack set operations involving accounts in opt-in regions
AWS Regions introduced after March 20, 2019, such as Asia Pacific (Hong Kong), are disabled by default. You must enable these Regions for your account(s) before you can use them. Because of this, consider the following when performing stack set operations involving accounts in Regions that are disabled by default. 
 You cannot create a stack set from an administrator account in a Region that is currently disabled for that account.
 For CloudFormation to successfully create or update a stack instance, the target account must reside in a Region that is currently enabled for that account.
 To deploy stack instances into a target account that resides in a Region that is disabled by default, and that is enabled for the target account but disabled for the administrator account, the AdministrationRole needs to trust both global CloudFormation service principal, as well as the regional service principal. 
Important
Be aware that during stack set operations, adminstrator and target accounts exchange metadata regarding the accounts themselves, as well as the stack set and stack set instances involved.
In addition, if you disable a Region that contains an account in which stack set instances reside, you are responsible for deleting any such instances or resources, if desired. In addition, be aware that metadata regarding the target account in the disabled Region will be retained in the administrator account.
For more information on enabling and disabling regions, see Managing AWS Regions in the AWS General Reference.
Topics
 Performing stack set operations involving accounts in opt-in regions
 Grant self-managed permissions
 Enable trusted access with AWS Organizations