What Tools are Available for Troubleshooting?
There are several tools you can use to gather information about your cluster to help determine what went wrong. Some require that you initialize them when you launch the cluster; others are available for every cluster. 
Topics
 Tools to Display Cluster Details
 Tools to View Log Files
 Tools to Monitor Cluster Performance
Tools to Display Cluster Details
You can use the AWS Management Console, AWS CLI, or EMR API to retrieve detailed information about an EMR cluster and job execution. For more information about using the AWS Management Console and AWS CLI, see View Cluster Status and Details.
Amazon EMR Console Details Pane
In the Clusters list on the Amazon EMR console you can see high-level information about the status of each cluster in your account and region. The list displays all clusters that you have launched in the past two months, regardless of whether they are active or terminated. From the Clusters list, you can select a cluster Name to view cluster details. This information is organized in different categories to make it easy to navigate. 
The Application history available in the cluster details page can be particularly useful for troubleshooting. It provides status of YARN applications, and for some, such as Spark applications you can drill into different metrics and facets, such as jobs, stages, and executors. For more information, see View Application History. This feature is available only in Amazon EMR version 5.8.0 and later.
Amazon EMR Command Line Interface
You can locate details about a cluster from the CLI using the --describe argument. 
Amazon EMR API
You can locate details about a cluster from the API using the DescribeJobFlows action. 
Tools to View Log Files
Amazon EMR and Hadoop both generate log files as the cluster runs. You can access these log files from several different tools, depending on the configuration you specified when you launched the cluster. For more information, see Configure Cluster Logging and Debugging. 
Log Files on the Master Node
Every cluster publishes logs files to the /mnt/var/log/ directory on the master node. These log files are only available while the cluster is running. 
Log Files Archived to Amazon S3
If you launch the cluster and specify an Amazon S3 log path, the cluster copies the log files stored in /mnt/var/log/ on the master node to Amazon S3 in 5-minute intervals. This ensures that you have access to the log files even after the cluster is terminated. Because the files are archived in 5-minute intervals, the last few minutes of an suddenly terminated cluster may not be available. 
Tools to Monitor Cluster Performance
Amazon EMR provides several tools to monitor the performance of your cluster. 
Hadoop Web Interfaces
Every cluster publishes a set of web interfaces on the master node that contain information about the cluster. You can access these web pages by using an SSH tunnel to connect them on the master node. For more information, see View Web Interfaces Hosted on Amazon EMR Clusters. 
CloudWatch Metrics
Every cluster reports metrics to CloudWatch. CloudWatch is a web service that tracks metrics, and which you can use to set alarms on those metrics. For more information, see Monitor Metrics with CloudWatch. 