Specifying Amazon S3 Encryption Using EMRFS Properties
Important
Beginning with Amazon EMR release version 4.8.0, you can use security configurations to apply encryption settings more easily and with more options. We recommend using security configurations. For information, see Configure Data Encryption. The console instructions described in this section are available for release versions earlier than 4.8.0. If you use the AWS CLI to configure Amazon S3 encryption both in the cluster configuration and in a security configuration in subsequent versions, the security configuration overrides the cluster configuration.
When you create a cluster, you can specify server-side encryption (SSE) or client-side encryption (CSE) for EMRFS data in Amazon S3 using the console or using emrfs-site classification properties through the AWS CLI or EMR SDK. Amazon S3 SSE and CSE are mutually exclusive; you can choose either but not both.
For AWS CLI instructions, see the appropriate section for your encryption type below.
To specify EMRFS encryption options using the AWS Management Console


Open the Amazon EMR console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/elasticmapreduce/.


Choose Create cluster, Go to advanced options.


Choose a Release of 4.7.2 or earlier.


Choose other options for Software and Steps as appropriate for your application, and then choose Next.


Choose settings in the Hardware and General Cluster Settings panes as appropriate for your application.


On the Security pane, under Authentication and encryption, select the S3 Encryption (with EMRFS) option to use.
Note
S3 server-side encryption with KMS Key Management (SSE-KMS) is not available when using Amazon EMR release version 4.4 or earlier.
    If you choose an option that uses AWS Key Management, choose an AWS KMS Key ID. For more information, see Using AWS KMS Customer Master Keys (CMKs) for EMRFS Encryption.
    If you choose S3 client-side encryption with custom materials provider, provide the Class name and the JAR location. For more information, see Amazon S3 Client-Side Encryption.


Choose other options as appropriate for your application and then choose Create Cluster.


Using AWS KMS Customer Master Keys (CMKs) for EMRFS Encryption
The AWS KMS encryption key must be created in the same Region as your Amazon EMR cluster instance and the Amazon S3 buckets used with EMRFS. If the key that you specify is in a different account from the one that you use to configure a cluster, you must specify the key using its ARN.
The role for the Amazon EC2 instance profile must have permissions to use the CMK you specify. The default role for the instance profile in Amazon EMR is EMR_EC2_DefaultRole. If you use a different role for the instance profile, or you use IAM roles for EMRFS requests to Amazon S3, make sure that each role is added as a key user as appropriate. This gives the role permissions to use the CMK. For more information, see Using Key Policies in the AWS Key Management Service Developer Guide and Service Role for Cluster EC2 Instances (EC2 Instance Profile).
You can use the AWS Management Console to add your instance profile or EC2 instance profile to the list of key users for the specified AWS KMS CMK, or you can use the AWS CLI or an AWS SDK to attach an appropriate key policy.
The procedure below describes how to add the default EMR instance profile, EMR_EC2_DefaultRole as a key user using the AWS Management Console. It assumes that you have already created a CMK. To create a new CMK, see Creating Keys in the AWS Key Management Service Developer Guide.
To add the EC2 instance profile for Amazon EMR to the list of encryption key users


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/kms.


To change the AWS Region, use the Region selector in the upper-right corner of the page.


Select the alias of the CMK to modify.


On the key details page under Key Users, choose Add.


In the Add key users dialog box, select the appropriate role. The name of the default role is EMR_EC2_DefaultRole.


Choose Add.


Amazon S3 Server-Side Encryption
When you set up Amazon S3 server-side encryption, Amazon S3 encrypts data at the object level as it writes the data to disk and decrypts the data when it is accessed. For more information about SSE, see Protecting Data Using Server-Side Encryption in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide.
You can choose between two different key management systems when you specify SSE in Amazon EMR: 
 SSE-S3 – Amazon S3 manages keys for you.
 SSE-KMS – You use an AWS KMS customer master key (CMK) set up with policies suitable for Amazon EMR. For more information about key requirements for Amazon EMR, see Using AWS KMS Customer Master Keys (CMKs) for Encryption. When you use AWS KMS, charges apply for the storage and use of encryption keys. For more information, see AWS KMS Pricing.
SSE with customer-provided keys (SSE-C) is not available for use with Amazon EMR.
To create a cluster with SSE-S3 enabled using the AWS CLI
 Type the following command:
aws emr create-cluster --release-label emr-4.7.2 or earlier \
  --instance-count 3 --instance-type m5.xlarge --emrfs Encryption=ServerSide
You can also enable SSE-S3 by setting the fs.s3.enableServerSideEncryption property to true in emrfs-site properties. See the example for SSE-KMS below and omit the property for Key ID.
To create a cluster with SSE-KMS enabled using the AWS CLI
Note
SSE-KMS is available only in Amazon EMR release version 4.5.0 and later.
 Type the following AWS CLI command to create a cluster with SSE-KMS, where keyID is an AWS KMS customer master key (CMK), for example, a4567b8-9900-12ab-1234-123a45678901:
aws emr create-cluster --release-label emr-4.7.2 or earlier --instance-count 3 \
  --instance-type m5.xlarge --use-default-roles \
  --emrfs Encryption=ServerSide,Args=[fs.s3.serverSideEncryption.kms.keyId=keyId]
--OR--
Type the following AWS CLI command using the emrfs-site classification and provide a configuration JSON file with contents as shown similar to myConfig.json in the example below:
aws emr create-cluster --release-label emr-4.7.2 or earlier --instance-count 3 --instance-type m5.xlarge --applications Name=Hadoop --configurations file://myConfig.json --use-default-roles
Example contents of myConfig.json:
[
    {
      "Classification":"emrfs-site",
      "Properties": {
         "fs.s3.enableServerSideEncryption": "true",
         "fs.s3.serverSideEncryption.kms.keyId":"a4567b8-9900-12ab-1234-123a45678901"
      }
    }
  ]
Configuration Properties for SSE-S3 and SSE-KMS
These properties can be configured using the emrfs-site configuration classification. SSE-KMS is available only in Amazon EMR release version 4.5.0 and later.



Property
Default value
Description




fs.s3.enableServerSideEncryption
false
When set to true, objects stored in Amazon S3 are encrypted using server-side encryption. If no key is specified, SSE-S3 is used.


fs.s3.serverSideEncryption.kms.keyId
n/a
Specifies an AWS KMS key ID or ARN. If a key is specified, SSE-KMS is used.


