Terminate a Cluster
This section describes the methods of terminating a cluster. For information about enabling termination protection and auto-terminating clusters, see Control Cluster Termination. You can terminate clusters in the STARTING, RUNNING, or WAITING states. A cluster in the WAITING state must be terminated or it runs indefinitely, generating charges to your account. You can terminate a cluster that fails to leave the STARTING state or is unable to complete a step. 
If you are terminating a cluster that has termination protection set on it, you must disable termination protection before you can terminate the cluster. Clusters can be terminated using the console, the AWS CLI, or programmatically using the TerminateJobFlows API.
Depending on the configuration of the cluster, it may take up to 5-20 minutes for the cluster to completely terminate and release allocated resources, such as EC2 instances.
Terminate a Cluster Using the Console
You can terminate one or more clusters using the Amazon EMR console. The steps to terminate a cluster in the console vary depending on whether termination protection is on or off. To terminate a protected cluster, you must first disable termination protection. 
To terminate a cluster with termination protection off


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon EMR console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/elasticmapreduce/.


Select the cluster to terminate. You can select multiple clusters and terminate them at the same time.


Choose Terminate.


When prompted, choose Terminate.


Amazon EMR terminates the instances in the cluster and stops saving log data.
To terminate a cluster with termination protection on


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon EMR console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/elasticmapreduce/.


On the Cluster List page, select the cluster to terminate. You can select multiple clusters and terminate them at the same time.


Choose Terminate.


When prompted, choose Change to turn termination protection off. If you selected multiple clusters, choose Turn off all to disable termination protection for all the clusters at once.


In the Terminate clusters dialog, for Termination Protection, choose Off and then click the check mark to confirm.


Click Terminate.


Amazon EMR terminates the instances in the cluster and stops saving log data.
Terminate a Cluster Using the AWS CLI
To terminate an unprotected cluster using the AWS CLI
To terminate an unprotected cluster using the AWS CLI, use the terminate-clusters subcommand with the --cluster-ids parameter. 
 Type the following command to terminate a single cluster and replace j-3KVXXXXXXX7UG with your cluster ID.
1. aws emr terminate-clusters --cluster-ids j-3KVXXXXXXX7UG
To terminate multiple clusters, type the following command and replace j-3KVXXXXXXX7UG and j-WJ2XXXXXX8EU with your cluster IDs.
1. aws emr terminate-clusters --cluster-ids j-3KVXXXXXXX7UG j-WJ2XXXXXX8EU
For more information on using Amazon EMR commands in the AWS CLI, see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/emr.
To terminate a protected cluster using the AWS CLI
To terminate a protected cluster using the AWS CLI, first disable termination protection using the modify-cluster-attributes subcommand with the --no-termination-protected parameter. Then use the terminate-clusters subcommand with the --cluster-ids parameter to terminate it. 

Type the following command to disable termination protection and replace j-3KVTXXXXXX7UG with your cluster ID.

1. aws emr modify-cluster-attributes --cluster-id j-3KVTXXXXXX7UG --no-termination-protected

To terminate the cluster, type the following command and replace j-3KVXXXXXXX7UG with your cluster ID.

1. aws emr terminate-clusters --cluster-ids j-3KVXXXXXXX7UG
To terminate multiple clusters, type the following command and replace j-3KVXXXXXXX7UG and j-WJ2XXXXXX8EU with your cluster IDs.
1. aws emr terminate-clusters --cluster-ids j-3KVXXXXXXX7UG j-WJ2XXXXXX8EU
For more information on using Amazon EMR commands in the AWS CLI, see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/emr.
Terminate a Cluster Using the API
The TerminateJobFlows operation ends step processing, uploads any log data from Amazon EC2 to Amazon S3 (if configured), and terminates the Hadoop cluster. A cluster also terminates automatically if you set KeepJobAliveWhenNoSteps to False in a RunJobFlows request.
You can use this action to terminate either a single cluster or a list of clusters by their cluster IDs.
For more information about the input parameters unique to TerminateJobFlows, see  TerminateJobFlows. For more information about the generic parameters in the request, see Common Request Parameters.