Tutorial: Set up a scaled and load-balanced application
Important
Before you explore this tutorial, we recommend that you first review the following introductory tutorial: Getting started with Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling.
Registering your Auto Scaling group with an Elastic Load Balancing load balancer helps you set up a load-balanced application. Elastic Load Balancing works with Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling to distribute incoming traffic across your healthy Amazon EC2 instances. This increases the scalability and availability of your application. You can enable Elastic Load Balancing within multiple Availability Zones to increase the fault tolerance of your applications. 
In this tutorial, we cover the basics steps for setting up a load-balanced application when the Auto Scaling group is created. To register an existing Auto Scaling group with a load balancer, see Attaching a load balancer instead.
Elastic Load Balancing supports three types of load balancers: Application Load Balancers, Network Load Balancers, and Classic Load Balancers. We recommend that you use either Application Load Balancers or Network Load Balancers. However, you can still use a Classic Load Balancer if it supports the features that your application needs. 
For more information, see Elastic Load Balancing and Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling. 
The procedure for deploying this scalable, load-balanced architecture for dynamic traffic consists of the following steps. 
 (Optional) Create the launch template or launch configuration that will serve as a template for your instances. Choose either the launch template or the launch configuration instructions, based on your preference. Skip this step if you want to use your own launch template or launch configuration.
 Next, create your Auto Scaling group and attach the load balancer. 
 Finally, verify that your load balancer is attached.
Topics
 Prerequisites
 Deploy your application (console)
 Deploy your application (AWS CLI)
 Next steps
 Clean up your AWS resources
Prerequisites

You have a load balancer and target group created to use. With Application Load Balancers or Network Load Balancers, your Auto Scaling group is registered to a target group that is associated with the load balancer. Make sure that you choose the same Availability Zones for the load balancer that you plan to enable for your Auto Scaling group. For more information, see Getting started with Elastic Load Balancing in the Elastic Load Balancing User Guide.
You have a security group for your launch template or launch configuration that allows access from the load balancer on the listener port (usually port 80 for HTTP traffic) and the port on which you want Elastic Load Balancing to perform health checks. For more information, see the applicable documentation:
Target security groups in the User Guide for Application Load Balancers
Target security groups in the User Guide for Network Load Balancers
Security groups for instances in a VPC in the User Guide for Classic Load Balancers

If your instances will have public IP addresses, you can also optionally allow SSH traffic if you need to connect to the instances. 
 (Optional) You have an IAM role that grants your application the access to AWS that it needs.
 (Optional) You have an Amazon Machine Image (AMI) defined to be the source template for your Amazon EC2 instances. To create one now, launch an instance. Specify the IAM role (if you created one) and any configuration scripts that you need as user data. Connect to the instance and customize it. For example, installing software and applications, copying data, and attaching additional EBS volumes. Test your applications on your instance to ensure that your instance is configured correctly. Save this updated configuration as a custom AMI. You can terminate the instance if you won't need it later. Instances launched from this new custom AMI include the customizations that you made when you created the AMI. 
 This tutorial refers to the default VPC, but you can use your own VPC. In the latter case, make sure that your VPC has a subnet mapped to each Availability Zone of the AWS Region you are working in. At minimum, you must have two public subnets available to create the load balancer and either two private subnets or two public subnets to create your Auto Scaling group and register it with the load balancer.
Deploy your application (console)
The following sections step you through the process of deploying your application. 
Topics
 Create a launch template
 Create a launch configuration
 Create an Auto Scaling group
 (Optional) Verify that your load balancer is attached
Create a launch template
You must have either a launch template or a launch configuration. If you already have a launch template that you'd like to use, skip this step.
To create a launch template (new console)


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


On the navigation bar at the top of the screen, choose the AWS Region where the load balancer was created.


On the navigation pane, under INSTANCES, choose Launch Templates.


Choose Create launch template. 


Enter a name and provide a description for the initial version of the launch template.


For Amazon machine image (AMI), enter the ID of the AMI for your instances. 


For Instance type, select a hardware configuration for your instances that is compatible with the AMI that you specified.


(Optional) For Key pair (login), enter the name of the key pair to use when connecting to your instances.


For Network interfaces, do the following:


Choose Add network interface. We will use the option to specify the network interface for the purpose of this tutorial.


(Optional) For Auto-assign public IP, keep the default value, Don't include in launch template. When you create your Auto Scaling group, you can assign a public IP address to instances in your Auto Scaling group by using subnets that have the public IP addressing attribute enabled, such as the default subnets in the default VPC. Alternatively, if you don't need to connect to your instances, you can choose Disable to prevent instances in your group from receiving traffic directly from the Internet. In this case, they will receive traffic only from the load balancer.


For Security group ID, specify a security group for your instances. 


For Delete on termination, choose Yes so that the network interface is deleted when the Auto Scaling group scales in and terminates the instance to which the network interface is attached. 


(Optional) To securely distribute credentials to your instances, for Advanced details, IAM instance profile, enter the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of your IAM role.


(Optional) To specify user data or a configuration script for your instances, paste it into Advanced details, User data.


Choose Create launch template. 


On the confirmation page, choose EC2 from the breadcrumbs at the top of the page. On the navigation pane, under AUTO SCALING, choose Auto Scaling Groups.


Create a launch configuration
If you already have a launch configuration that you'd like to use, skip this step.
To create a launch configuration


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


On the navigation bar at the top of the screen, choose the AWS Region where the load balancer was created.


On the navigation pane, under AUTO SCALING, choose Launch Configurations.


Choose Create launch configuration.


On the Choose AMI page, select the AMI for your instances. 


On the Choose Instance Type page, select a hardware configuration for your instance, and then choose Next: Configure details.


On the Configure Details page, do the following:


For Name, enter a name for your launch configuration.


(Optional) To securely distribute credentials to your EC2 instance, select your IAM role.


(Optional) To specify user data or a configuration script for your instance, for Advanced Details, User data, paste your configuration script.


(Optional) For Advanced Details, IP Address Type, keep the default value. When you create your Auto Scaling group, you can assign a public IP address to instances in your Auto Scaling group by using subnets that have the public IP addressing attribute enabled, such as the default subnets in the default VPC. Alternatively, if you don't need to connect to your instances, you can choose Do not assign a public IP address to any instances to prevent instances in your group from receiving traffic directly from the Internet. In this case, they will receive traffic only from the load balancer.


Choose Skip to review.


On the Review page, choose Edit security groups. You can select an existing security group or create a new one. When you are finished, choose Review. 
Note
If you have not already created a security group, the wizard automatically defines the AutoScaling-Security-Group-x security group to allow you to connect to your instances. The AutoScaling-Security-Group-x security group enables all IP addresses (0.0.0.0/0) and allows inbound traffic on port 22 (SSH) for Linux instances or port 3389 (RDP) for Windows instances depending on the AMI you specified.


On the Review page, choose Create launch configuration.


When prompted, select an existing key pair, create a new key pair, or proceed without a key pair. Select the acknowledgment check box, and then choose Create launch configuration.
Warning
Do not choose Proceed without a key pair if you will need to connect to your instances.


On the confirmation page, choose View your Auto Scaling groups.


Create an Auto Scaling group
After completing the instructions above, you're ready to proceed with the wizard to create an Auto Scaling group. 
Use the following procedure to continue where you left off after creating your launch template or launch configuration. A new console is available for Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling. Choose either the new console or the old console instructions based on the console that you are using.
To create an Auto Scaling group (new console)


If you have not yet navigated to the Auto Scaling groups page, do the following:


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


On the navigation pane, under AUTO SCALING, choose Auto Scaling Groups.


Choose Create an Auto Scaling group.


On the Choose launch template or configuration page, for Auto Scaling group name, enter a name for your Auto Scaling group.


For Launch template, choose one of the following options:


[Launch template only] Choose the launch template that you created and then choose whether the Auto Scaling group uses the default, the latest, or a specific version of the launch template when scaling out.


[Launch configuration only] Choose Switch to launch configuration and choose the launch configuration that you created.


Choose Next. 


The Configure settings page appears, allowing you to configure network settings and giving you options for enabling diversification across On-Demand Instances and Spot Instances of multiple instance types (if you chose a launch template). 


[Launch template only] Keep Purchase options and instance types set to Adhere to the launch template to use the EC2 instance type and purchase option that are specified in the launch template. 


For Network, choose the VPC that you used for your load balancer. If you chose the default VPC, it is automatically configured to provide internet connectivity to your instances. This VPC includes a public subnet in each Availability Zone in the Region. 


For Subnet, choose one or more subnets from each Availability Zone that you want to include, based on which Availability Zones the load balancer is in.


Choose Next. 


On the Configure advanced options page, under Load balancing, choose Enable load balancing.


Do one of the following:


Choose Application Load Balancer or Network Load Balancer, and then choose your load balancer target group.


Choose Classic Load Balancers, and then choose your load balancer.


(Optional) To use Elastic Load Balancing health checks, for Health checks, choose ELB under Health check type.


When you have finished configuring the Auto Scaling group, choose Skip to review. 


On the Review page, review the details of your Auto Scaling group. You can choose Edit to make changes. When you are finished, choose Create Auto Scaling group.


To create an Auto Scaling group (old console)


If you have not yet navigated to the Auto Scaling Groups page, do the following:


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


On the navigation pane, under AUTO SCALING, choose Auto Scaling Groups.


Choose Create Auto Scaling group. 


On the Create Auto Scaling Group page, choose Launch Configuration and choose an existing launch configuration, or choose Launch Template and choose your launch template, and then choose Next Step. 


On the Configure Auto Scaling group details page, do the following:


For Group name, enter a name for your Auto Scaling group.


[Launch template only] For Launch template version, choose whether the Auto Scaling group uses the default, the latest, or a specific version of the launch template when scaling out.


[Launch template only] For Fleet Composition, choose Adhere to the launch template to use the EC2 instance type and purchase option that are specified in the launch template. 


Keep Group size set to the default value of 1 instance for this tutorial. 


For Network, choose the VPC that you used for your load balancer. If you chose the default VPC, it is automatically configured to provide internet connectivity to your instances. This VPC includes a public subnet in each Availability Zone in the Region. 


For Subnet, choose one or more subnets from each Availability Zone that you want to include, based on which Availability Zones the load balancer is in.


For Advanced Details, select Receive traffic from Elastic Load Balancer(s) and then do one of the following:

[Classic Load Balancers only] Select your load balancer from Load Balancers.
[Application/Network Load Balancers only] Select your target group from Target Groups.



(Optional) To use Elastic Load Balancing health checks, choose ELB for Advanced Details, Health Check Type.


Choose Next: Configure scaling policies.


On the Configure scaling policies page, select Keep this group at its initial size.


When you have finished configuring the Auto Scaling group, choose Review.


Review the details of your Auto Scaling group. You can choose Edit to make changes. When you are finished, choose Create Auto Scaling group.


After you have created the Auto Scaling group with the load balancer attached, the load balancer automatically registers new instances as they come online. You have only one instance at this point, so there isn't much to register. However, you can now add additional instances by updating the desired capacity of the group. For step-by-step instructions, see Manual scaling. 
(Optional) Verify that your load balancer is attached
To verify that your load balancer is attached (new console)


From the Auto Scaling Groups page, if you're seeing the old user interface, switch to the new user interface by choosing Go to the new console from the banner at the top of the page.


Select the check box next to your Auto Scaling group.


On the Details tab, Load balancing shows any attached load balancer target groups or Classic Load Balancers.


On the Instance management tab, under Instances, you can verify that your instances launched successfully. Initially, your instances are in the Pending state. After an instance is ready to receive traffic, its state is InService. The Health status column shows the result of the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling health checks on your instances. Although an instance may be marked as healthy, the load balancer will only send traffic to instances that pass the load balancer health checks.


Verify that your instances are registered with the load balancer. On the navigation pane of the EC2 console, under LOAD BALANCING, choose Target Groups. Select your target group, and then choose the Targets tab. If the state of your instances is initial, it's probably because they are still in the process of being registered, or they have not passed the minimum number of health checks to be considered healthy. When the state of your instances is healthy, they are ready for use.


To verify that your load balancer is attached (old console)


From the Auto Scaling Groups page, select your Auto Scaling group.


On the Details tab, Load Balancers shows any attached load balancers, and Target Groups shows any attached target groups.


On the Instances tab, you can view the status of the instances that are currently running. Initially, your instances are in the Pending state. After an instance is ready to receive traffic, its state is InService. The Health status column shows the result of the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling health checks on your instances. Although an instance may be marked as healthy, the load balancer will only send traffic to instances that pass the load balancer health checks.


Verify that your instances are registered with the load balancer. On the navigation pane of the EC2 console, under LOAD BALANCING, choose Target Groups. Select your target group, and then choose the Targets tab. If the state of your instances is initial, it's probably because they are still in the process of being registered, or they have not passed the minimum number of health checks to be considered healthy. When the state of your instances is healthy, they are ready for use.


Deploy your application (AWS CLI)
The following sections step you through the process of deploying your application. 
Topics
 Create a launch template
 Create a launch configuration
 Create an Auto Scaling group with a load balancer
Create a launch template
If you already have a launch template that you'd like to use, skip this step.
To create the launch template
Use the following https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/create-launch-template.html command and pass a JSON file that contains the information for creating the launch template.
aws ec2 create-launch-template --launch-template-name my-launch-template --version-description my-version-description \
  --launch-template-data '{"NetworkInterfaces":[{"DeviceIndex":0,"Groups":["sg-903004f8"],"DeleteOnTermination":true}],"ImageId":"ami-01e24be29428c15b2","InstanceType":"t2.micro"}'
Create a launch configuration
If you already have a launch configuration that you'd like to use, skip this step.
To create the launch configuration
Use the following https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/autoscaling/create-launch-configuration.html command. 
aws autoscaling create-launch-configuration --launch-configuration-name my-launch-config \
  --image-id ami-01e24be29428c15b2 --instance-type t2.micro --security-groups sg-903004f8
Create an Auto Scaling group with a load balancer
You can attach an existing load balancer to an Auto Scaling group when you create the group. You can use either a launch configuration or a launch template to automatically configure the instances that your Auto Scaling group launches. 
To create an Auto Scaling group with an attached Classic Load Balancer
Use the following https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/autoscaling/create-auto-scaling-group.html command with the --load-balancer-names option to create an Auto Scaling group with an attached Classic Load Balancer.
aws autoscaling create-auto-scaling-group --auto-scaling-group-name my-asg \
  --launch-configuration-name my-launch-config \
  --vpc-zone-identifier "subnet-5ea0c127,subnet-6194ea3b,subnet-c934b782" \
  --load-balancer-names "my-load-balancer" \
  --max-size 5 --min-size 1 --desired-capacity 2
To create an Auto Scaling group with an attached target group for an Application Load Balancer or Network Load Balancer
Use the following https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/autoscaling/create-auto-scaling-group.html command with the --target-group-arns option to create an Auto Scaling group with an attached target group.
aws autoscaling create-auto-scaling-group --auto-scaling-group-name my-asg \
  --launch-template "LaunchTemplateName=my-launch-template,Version=1" \
  --vpc-zone-identifier "subnet-5ea0c127,subnet-6194ea3b,subnet-c934b782" \
  --target-group-arns "arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:region:123456789012:targetgroup/my-targets/1234567890123456" \
  --max-size 5 --min-size 1 --desired-capacity 2
Next steps
Now that you have completed this tutorial, you can learn more:
 You can configure your Auto Scaling group to use a scaling policy to automatically increase or decrease the number of instances as the demand on your instances changes. This allows the group to handle changes in the amount of traffic that your application receives. For more information, see Target tracking scaling policies. 
 If you would like to learn how to create automated schedules for scaling, Scheduled scaling provides an introduction to scheduling an Auto Scaling group to scale using one-time or recurring scaling actions.
 You can configure your Auto Scaling group to use Elastic Load Balancing health checks. If you enable load balancer health checks and an instance fails the health checks, the Auto Scaling group considers the instance unhealthy and replaces it. For more information, see Adding ELB health checks.
 You can expand your application to an additional Availability Zone in the same AWS Region to increase fault tolerance in the event of a service disruption. For more information, see Adding an Availability Zone.
Clean up your AWS resources
You've now successfully completed the tutorial. To avoid unnecessary charges to your account for resources that you aren't using, you should clean up the resources that you created just for this tutorial. For step-by-step instructions, see Deleting your Auto Scaling infrastructure.