Deploying a Conformance Pack Using the AWS Config Console
On the Conformance packs page, you can deploy a conformance pack for an account in a Region. You can also edit and delete the deployed conformance pack. 
Deploy a Conformance Pack Using Sample Templates
You can deploy a conformance pack using AWS Config sample templates.


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the AWS Config console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/config/.


Navigate to the Conformance packs page and choose Deploy conformance pack.


On the Specify template page, either choose a sample template or use an existing template. 
    If you choose Use sample template, select a Sample template from the drop-down list of sample templates.
For information about the contents of each template, see Conformance Pack Sample Templates.
    If you choose Template is ready, specify the template source. It is either an Amazon S3 URI or a that you upload. 
If your template is more than 50 KB, upload it to the S3 bucket and select that S3 bucket location. For example: s3://bucketname/prefix.


Choose Next.


On the Specify conformance pack details page, type the name for your conformance pack.


The conformance pack name must be a unique name with a maximum of 256 alphanumeric characters. The name can contain hyphens but cannot contain spaces. 

Type the name of the Amazon S3 bucket.  Optionally, type a bucket prefix. 

The S3 bucket name must be a minimum of 3 and maximum of 63 lower case alphanumeric characters. The bucket name can contain dashes and must start and end with alphanumeric characters.

Optional: Add a parameter. 

Parameters are defined in your template and help you manage and organize your resources.


Choose Next.


On the Review and deploy page, review all of the information. 


You can edit the template details and conformance pack details by choosing Edit.

Choose Deploy conformance pack.

AWS Config displays the conformance pack on the conformance pack page with the appropriate status. 
If your conformance pack deployment fails, check your permissions, verify that you did the prerequisite steps, and try again. Or you can contact AWS Config support.
To deploy a conformance pack using sample template with remediations, see the Prerequisites for Using a Conformance Pack With Remediation and then use the preceding procedure.
To deploy a conformance pack with one or more AWS Config rules, see the Prerequisites for Using a Conformance Pack With One or More AWS Config Rules.
Edit a Conformance Pack


To edit a conformance pack, select the conformance pack from the table.


Choose Actions and then choose Edit.


On the Edit conformance pack page, you can edit the template details, sample template, conformance pack, and parameters section. 


You cannot change the name of the conformance pack.

Choose Save changes.

The conformance pack is displayed with the AWS Config rules.
Delete a Conformance Pack


To delete a conformance pack, select the conformance pack from the table.


Choose Actions and then choose Delete.


On the delete conformance pack dialog box, confirm if you would like to permanently delete this conformance pack. 


You cannot revert this action. When you delete a conformance pack, you delete all of the AWS Config rules and remediation actions in that conformance pack.

Enter Delete and choose Delete.

On the Conformance packs page, you can see the deployment status as Deleting until the conformance pack is completely deleted.