Evaluating Resources with AWS Config Rules
Use AWS Config to evaluate the configuration settings of your AWS resources. You do this by creating AWS Config rules, which represent your ideal configuration settings. AWS Config provides customizable, predefined rules called managed rules to help you get started. You can also create your own custom rules. While AWS Config continuously tracks the configuration changes that occur among your resources, it checks whether these changes violate any of the conditions in your rules. If a resource violates a rule, AWS Config flags the resource and the rule as noncompliant.
For example, when an EC2 volume is created, AWS Config can evaluate the volume against a rule that requires volumes to be encrypted. If the volume is not encrypted, AWS Config flags the volume and the rule as noncompliant. AWS Config can also check all of your resources for account-wide requirements. For example, AWS Config can check whether the number of EC2 volumes in an account stays within a desired total, or whether an account uses AWS CloudTrail for logging. 
The AWS Config console shows the compliance status of your rules and resources. You can see how your AWS resources comply overall with your desired configurations, and learn which specific resources are noncompliant. You can also use the AWS CLI, the AWS Config API, and AWS SDKs to make requests to the AWS Config service for compliance information.
By using AWS Config to evaluate your resource configurations, you can assess how well your resource configurations comply with internal practices, industry guidelines, and regulations.
For regions that support AWS Config rules, see AWS Config Regions and Endpoints in the Amazon Web Services General Reference.
You can create up to 150 AWS Config rules per region in your account. For more information, see AWS Config Limits in the Amazon Web Services General Reference.
You can also create custom rules to evaluate additional resources that AWS Config doesn't yet record. For more information, see Evaluating Additional Resource Types.
Topics
 Viewing Configuration Compliance
 Specifying Triggers for AWS Config Rules
 AWS Config Managed Rules
 AWS Config Custom Rules
 Managing your AWS Config Rules
 Evaluating Your Resources
 Deleting Evaluation Results
 Enabling AWS Config Rules Across all Accounts in Your Organization
 Remediating Noncompliant AWS Resources by AWS Config Rules
 Tagging Your AWS Config Resources