Setting Up an Aggregator Using the Console
On the Aggregator page, you can do the following:
 Create an aggregator by specifying the source account IDs or organization and regions from which you want to aggregate data.
 Edit and delete an aggregator.
Topics
 Add an Aggregator
 Edit an Aggregator
 Delete an Aggregator
 Learn More
Add an Aggregator


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the AWS Config console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/config/.


Navigate to the Aggregators page and choose Add aggregator.


Allow data replication, gives permission to AWS Config to replicate data from the source accounts into an aggregator account.


Choose Allow AWS Config to replicate data from source account(s) into an aggregator account. You must select this checkbox to continue to add an aggregator.

For Aggregator name, type the name for your aggregator.

The aggregator name must be a unique name with a maximum of 64 alphanumeric characters. The name can contain hyphens and underscores.


For Select source accounts, either choose Add individual account IDs or Add my organization from which you want to aggregate data.
    If you choose Add individual account IDs, you can add individual account IDs for an aggregator account.


Choose Add source accounts to add account IDs.


Choose Add AWS account IDs to manually add comma-separated AWS account IDs. If you want to aggregate data from the current account, type the account ID of the account.
OR
Choose Upload a file to upload a file (.txt or .csv) of comma-separated AWS account IDs.


Choose Add source accounts to confirm your selection.
    If you choose Add my organization, you can add all accounts in your organization to an aggregator account.
Note
You must be signed in to the master account and all features must be enabled in your organization. This option automatically enables the integration between AWS Config and AWS Organizations.


Choose Choose IAM role to create an IAM role or choose an existing IAM role from your account.
You must assign an IAM role to allow AWS Config to call read-only APIs for your organization.


Choose Create a role and type the IAM role name to create IAM role.
OR
Choose Choose a role from your account to select an existing IAM role.
Note
In the IAM console, attach the AWSConfigRoleForOrganizations managed policy to your IAM role. Attaching this policy allows AWS Config to call AWS Organizations DescribeOrganization, ListAWSServiceAccessForOrganization, and ListAccounts APIs. You must edit the control policy document to include config.amazonaws.com trusted entity.


Choose Choose IAM role to confirm your selection.




For Regions, choose the regions for which you want to aggregate data.
    Select one region or multiple regions or all the AWS regions.
    Select Include future AWS regions to aggregate data from all future AWS regions where multi-account multi-region data aggregation is enabled.


Choose Save. AWS Config displays the aggregator.


Edit an Aggregator


To make changes to the aggregator, choose the aggregator name.


Choose Actions and then choose Edit.


Use the sections on the Edit aggregator page to change the source accounts, IAM roles, or regions for the aggregator.
Note
You cannot change source type from individual account(s) to organization and vice versa.


Choose Save.


Delete an Aggregator


To delete an aggregator, choose the aggregator name.


Choose Actions and then choose Delete.


A warning message is displayed. Deleting an aggregator results in the loss of all aggregated data. You cannot recover this data but data in the source account(s) is not impacted.

Choose Delete to confirm your selection.

Learn More

Concepts
Authorizing Aggregator Accounts to Collect AWS Config Configuration and Compliance Data Using the Console
Viewing Configuration and Compliance Data in the Aggregated View
Troubleshooting for Multi-Account Multi-Region Data Aggregation
