Amazon SNS API permissions: Actions and resources reference
The following list grants information specific to the Amazon SNS implementation of access control:
 Each policy must cover only a single topic (when writing a policy, don't include statements that cover different topics)
 Each policy must have a unique policy Id
 Each statement in a policy must have a unique statement sid
Policy quotas
The following table lists the maximum quotas for a policy statement.



Name
Maximum quota




Bytes
30 kb


Statements
100


Principals
1 to 200 (0 is invalid.)


Resource
1 (0 is invalid. The value must match the ARN of the policy's topic.)



Valid Amazon SNS policy actions
Amazon SNS supports the actions shown in the following table.



Action
Description




sns:AddPermission
Grants permission to add permissions to the topic policy.


sns:DeleteTopic
Grants permission to delete a topic.


sns:GetTopicAttributes
Grants permission to receive all of the topic attributes.


sns:ListSubscriptionsByTopic
Grants permission to retrieve all the subscriptions to a specific topic.


sns:Publish
Grants permission to publish to a topic or endpoint. For more information, see Publish in the Amazon Simple Notification Service API Reference


sns:RemovePermission
Grants permission to remove any permissions in the topic policy.


sns:SetTopicAttributes
Grants permission to set a topic's attributes.


sns:Subscribe
Grants permission to subscribe to a topic.



Service-specific keys
Amazon SNS uses the following service-specific keys. You can use these in policies that restrict access to Subscribe requests.
 sns:endpoint—The URL, email address, or ARN from a Subscribe request or a previously confirmed subscription. Use with string conditions (see Example policies for Amazon SNS) to restrict access to specific endpoints (for example, *@example.com).
 sns:protocol—The protocol value from a Subscribe request or a previously confirmed subscription. Use with string conditions (see Example policies for Amazon SNS) to restrict publication to specific delivery protocols (for example, https).
Important
When you use a policy to control access by sns:Endpoint, be aware that DNS issues might affect the endpoint's name resolution in the future.