Tagging resources
Amazon MQ supports resource tagging to help track your cost allocation. You can tag resources when creating them, or by viewing the details of that resource.
Topics
 Tagging for Cost Allocation
 Managing Tags in the Amazon MQ Console
 Managing Using Amazon MQ API Actions
Tagging for Cost Allocation
To organize and identify your Amazon MQ resources for cost allocation, you can add metadata tags that identify the purpose of a broker or configuration. This is especially useful when you have many brokers. You can use cost allocation tags to organize your AWS bill to reflect your own cost structure. To do this, sign up to get your AWS account bill to include the tag keys and values. For more information, see Setting Up a Monthly Cost Allocation Report in the AWS Billing and Cost Management User Guide.
For instance, you could add tags that represent the cost center and purpose of your Amazon MQ resources:

[See the AWS documentation website for more details]
This tagging scheme allows you to group two brokers performing related tasks in the same cost center, while tagging an unrelated broker with a different cost allocation tag.
Managing Tags in the Amazon MQ Console
Adding Tags to New Resources
Amazon MQ lets you to add tags to resources as they are created. You can quickly add tags to the resources you are creating in the Amazon MQ console. 
To add tags as you create a new broker:


From the Create a broker page, select Additional settings.


Under Tags, select Add tag.


Enter a Key and Value pair.



(Optional) Select Add tag to add multiple tags to your broker.


Select Create broker.


To add tags as you create a configuration:


From the Create configuration page, select Advanced.


Under Tags on the Create configuration page, select Add tag.


Enter a Key and Value pair.


(Optional) Select Add tag to add multiple tags to your configuration.


Select Create configuration.


Viewing and Managing Tags for Existing Resources
Amazon MQ allows you to view and manage the tags for your resources in the Amazon MQ console. You can manage tags for an individual resource by editing the tags on the details page for that resource. To edit tags on Amazon MQ resources:

Select either Brokers or Configurations in the Amazon MQ console.

Under the Tags section, review the existing tags for that resource.


To add new or manage existing tags, select Edit (or Create tag if have no existing tags).


Update tags for your resource:
    To modify existing tags, edit the Key and Value.
    To remove existing tags, select Remove.
    To add a new tag, select Add tag and enter a Key and Value.


Select Save.


Managing Using Amazon MQ API Actions
Amazon MQ allows you to view and manage the tags of your resources using the REST API. 
For more information, see the Amazon MQ REST API Reference.