Security Best Practices for Amazon MQ
The following design patterns can improve the security of your Amazon MQ broker.
Topics
 Prefer Brokers without Public Accessibility
 Always Use Client-Side Encryption as a Complement to TLS
 Always Configure an Authorization Map
 Block Unnecessary Protocols with VPC Security Groups
Prefer Brokers without Public Accessibility
Brokers created without public accessibility can't be accessed from outside of your VPC. This greatly reduces your broker's susceptibility to Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks from the public internet. For more information, see Accessing the ActiveMQ Web Console of a Broker without Public Accessibility in this guide and How to Help Prepare for DDoS Attacks by Reducing Your Attack Surface on the AWS Security Blog.
Always Use Client-Side Encryption as a Complement to TLS
You can access your brokers using the following protocols with TLS enabled:
 AMQP
 MQTT
 MQTT over WebSocket
 OpenWire
 STOMP
 STOMP over WebSocket
Amazon MQ encrypts messages at rest and in transit using encryption keys that it manages and stores securely. For additional security, we highly recommend designing your application to use client-side encryption. For more information, see the AWS Encryption SDK Developer Guide.
Always Configure an Authorization Map
Because ActiveMQ has no authorization map configured by default, any authenticated user can perform any action on the broker. Thus, it is a best practice to restrict permissions by group. For more information, see ``.
Block Unnecessary Protocols with VPC Security Groups
To improve security, you should restrict the connections of unnecessary protocols and ports by properly configuring your Amazon VPC Security Group. For instance, to restrict access to most protocols while allowing access to OpenWire and the ActiveMQ web console, you could allow access to only 61617 and 8162. This limits your exposure by blocking protocols you are not using, while allowing OpenWire and the ActiveMQ web console to function normally.
Allow only the protocol ports that you are using.
 AMQP: 5671
 MQTT: 8883
 OpenWire: 61617
 STOMP: 61614
 WebSocket: 61619
For more information see.
 Step 2: (Optional) Configure Additional Broker Settings
 Security Groups for your VPC
 Default Security Group for Your VPC
 Working with Security Groups