Organizing and editing files and folders
The following topics discuss how you can organize and edit files and folders in the Amazon WorkDocs web client.
Topics
 Creating folders
 Renaming and moving folders and files
 Editing files
 Deleting folders and files
 Managing the recycle bin (web only)
Creating folders
To create a folder


In the web client, open the folder in which to create the new folder.


Choose Create, Folder.


Enter the folder name, then choose Create.


If your site administrator has enabled Hancom ThinkFree, you can also create new files in the web client. For more information, see Editing with Hancom ThinkFree.
To create a team folder


Follow the previous steps to create a folder.


Send an invite to share the folder with your team directory group. For more information on sharing the folder by invite, see Sharing by invite.


If you do not have a team directory group, ask your Amazon WorkDocs site administrator to create one. Contact your administrator from the web application by choosing Tasks, New task, Contact Administrators. 
Renaming and moving folders and files
If you have permissions, you can change the name of a folder or file. For more information, see Permissions.
To rename a folder or file


In the web client, select the folder or file to be renamed.


For Actions, choose More..., Rename.


Enter the new name, then press the Enter key.


When you are signed in to the Amazon WorkDocs site, you can sort documents by name, owner, and other attributes. Use the dropdown arrows in the menu above your documents to do so. If you have permissions, you can also move folders or files to other folders by following these steps.
To move a folder or file


In the web client, select the folder or file to be moved.


For Actions, choose More..., Move.


In the dialog box, navigate to the target folder and choose Move.


Note
When you move a folder, all of the files and folders within the folder are moved along with it. To move multiple files at the same time, move them all into the same folder, and then move the folder.
Editing files
You can edit a file in the web client. When you save your edits to a file, the changes are saved to Amazon WorkDocs as a new file version.
To edit a file


In the web client, select or open the file.


Choose Edit, Desktop app.
Note
If your site administrator has enabled a collaborative editing feature, you can select that option to edit your file. For more information, see Feedback and collaborative editing.


If Amazon WorkDocs Companion isn’t installed, follow the prompts to install it.


After installing Amazon WorkDocs Companion, the file opens on your computer for editing. Choose whether to lock the file while you edit it.


When you’re done editing, choose Save to automatically save your changes to Amazon WorkDocs as a new file version.


If you lock the file, you can unlock it when you're done with your changes. For more information about locking and unlocking files, see Locking and unlocking files.
For more information about Amazon WorkDocs Companion, see Using Amazon WorkDocs Companion.
Deleting folders and files
When you delete a folder or file, it is moved to the recycle bin. If there are files or other folders in a deleted folder, they are moved to the recycle bin as well.
To delete folders or files


In the web client, select the files or folders to be deleted. 


For Actions, choose More..., Delete.


Managing the recycle bin (web only)
Manage your Recycle bin in the web client.
To delete folders or files from the *Recycle bin*


In the web client, choose Recycle bin.


Select the folders or files to delete, and choose Delete.


The folders or files are permanently deleted.


To restore folders or files from the *Recycle bin*


In the web client, choose Recycle bin.


Select the folders or files to restore, and choose Restore.


The restored folders or files appear in MyDocs.

