What Is Amazon Elasticsearch Service?
Amazon Elasticsearch Service (Amazon ES) is a managed service that makes it easy to deploy, operate, and scale Elasticsearch clusters in the AWS Cloud. Elasticsearch is a popular open-source search and analytics engine for use cases such as log analytics, real-time application monitoring, and clickstream analysis. With Amazon ES, you get direct access to the Elasticsearch APIs; existing code and applications work seamlessly with the service.
Amazon ES provisions all the resources for your Elasticsearch cluster and launches it. It also automatically detects and replaces failed Elasticsearch nodes, reducing the overhead associated with self-managed infrastructures. You can scale your cluster with a single API call or a few clicks in the console.
To get started using Amazon ES, you create a domain. An Amazon ES domain is synonymous with an Elasticsearch cluster. Domains are clusters with the settings, instance types, instance counts, and storage resources that you specify. Each instance acts as one Elasticsearch node.
You can use the Amazon ES console to set up and configure a domain in minutes. If you prefer programmatic access, you can use the AWS CLI or the AWS SDKs.
Topics
 Features of Amazon Elasticsearch Service
 Supported Elasticsearch Versions
 Pricing for Amazon Elasticsearch Service
 Getting Started with Amazon Elasticsearch Service
 Related Services
Features of Amazon Elasticsearch Service
Amazon ES includes the following features:
Scale
 Numerous configurations of CPU, memory, and storage capacity, known as instance types
 Up to 3 PB of attached storage
 Cost-effective UltraWarm storage for read-only data
Security
 AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) access control
 Easy integration with Amazon VPC and VPC security groups
 Encryption of data at rest and node-to-node encryption
 Amazon Cognito or HTTP basic authentication for Kibana
 Index-level, document-level, and field-level security
 Kibana multi-tenancy
Stability
 Numerous geographical locations for your resources, known as Regions and Availability Zones
 Node allocation across two or three Availability Zones in the same AWS Region, known as Multi-AZ
 Dedicated master nodes to offload cluster management tasks
 Automated snapshots to back up and restore Amazon ES domains
Flexibility
 SQL support for integration with business intelligence (BI) applications
 Custom packages to improve search results
Integration with Popular Services
 Data visualization using Kibana
 Integration with Amazon CloudWatch for monitoring Amazon ES domain metrics and setting alarms
 Integration with AWS CloudTrail for auditing configuration API calls to Amazon ES domains
 Integration with Amazon S3, Amazon Kinesis, and Amazon DynamoDB for loading streaming data into Amazon ES
 Alerts from Amazon SNS when your data exceeds certain thresholds
Supported Elasticsearch Versions
Amazon ES currently supports the following Elasticsearch versions:
 7.7, 7.4, 7.1
 6.8, 6.7, 6.5, 6.4, 6.3, 6.2, 6.0
 5.6, 5.5, 5.3, 5.1
 2.3
 1.5
Compared to earlier versions of Elasticsearch, the 7.x and 6.x versions offer powerful features that make them faster, more secure, and easier to use. Here are a few highlights:
 Higher indexing performance – Newer versions of Elasticsearch provide superior indexing capabilities that significantly increase the throughput of data updates.
 Better safeguards – Newer versions of Elasticsearch help prevent overly broad or complex queries from negatively affecting the performance and stability of the cluster.
 Vega visualizations – Kibana 6.2 and later versions support the Vega visualization language, which lets you make context-aware Elasticsearch queries, combine multiple data sources into a single graph, add user interactivity to graphs, and much more.
 Java high-level REST client – Compared to the low-level client, this client offers a simplified development experience and supports most Elasticsearch APIs. For a code example, see Signing HTTP Requests.
For more information, see Supported Elasticsearch Operations, Features by Elasticsearch Version, and Plugins by Elasticsearch Version.
If you start a new Elasticsearch project, we strongly recommend that you choose the latest supported Elasticsearch version. If you have an existing domain that uses an older Elasticsearch version, you can choose to keep the domain or migrate your data. For more information, see Upgrading Elasticsearch.
Pricing for Amazon Elasticsearch Service
For Amazon ES, you pay for each hour of use of an EC2 instance and for the cumulative size of any EBS storage volumes attached to your instances. Standard AWS data transfer charges also apply.
However, some notable data transfer exceptions exist. If a domain uses multiple Availability Zones, Amazon ES does not bill for traffic between the Availability Zones. Significant data transfer occurs within a domain during shard allocation and rebalancing. Amazon ES neither meters nor bills for this traffic. Similarly, Amazon ES does not bill for data transfer between UltraWarm nodes and Amazon S3.
For full pricing details, see Amazon Elasticsearch Service Pricing. For information about charges incurred during configuration changes, see Charges for Configuration Changes.
Getting Started with Amazon Elasticsearch Service
To get started, sign up for an AWS account if you don't already have one. After you are set up with an account, complete the Getting Started tutorial for Amazon Elasticsearch Service. Consult the following introductory topics if you need more information while learning about the service:
 Create a domain
 Size the domain appropriately for your workload
 Control access to your domain using a domain access policy or fine-grained access control
 Index data manually or from other AWS services
 Use Kibana to search your data and create visualizations
For information on migrating to Amazon ES from a self-managed Elasticsearch cluster, see Migrating to Amazon Elasticsearch Service.
Related Services
Amazon ES commonly is used with the following services:
Amazon CloudWatch
Amazon ES domains automatically send metrics to CloudWatch so that you can monitor domain health and performance. For more information, see Monitoring Cluster Metrics with Amazon CloudWatch.
CloudWatch Logs can also go the other direction. You might configure CloudWatch Logs to stream data to Amazon ES for analysis. To learn more, see Loading Streaming Data into Amazon ES from Amazon CloudWatch.
AWS CloudTrail
Use AWS CloudTrail to get a history of the Amazon ES configuration API calls and related events for your account. For more information, see Configuration API Monitoring in Amazon Elasticsearch Service.
Amazon Kinesis
Kinesis is a managed service for real-time processing of streaming data at a massive scale. For more information, see Loading Streaming Data into Amazon ES from Amazon Kinesis Data Streams and Loading Streaming Data into Amazon ES from Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose.
Amazon S3
Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) provides storage for the internet. This guide provides Lambda sample code for integration with Amazon S3. For more information, see Loading Streaming Data into Amazon ES from Amazon S3.
AWS IAM
AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) is a web service that you can use to manage access to your Amazon ES domains. For more information, see Identity and Access Management in Amazon Elasticsearch Service.
AWS Lambda
AWS Lambda is a compute service that lets you run code without provisioning or managing servers. This guide provides Lambda sample code to stream data from DynamoDB, Amazon S3, and Kinesis. For more information, see Loading Streaming Data into Amazon Elasticsearch Service.
Amazon DynamoDB
Amazon DynamoDB is a fully managed NoSQL database service that provides fast and predictable performance with seamless scalability. To learn more about streaming data to Amazon ES, see Loading Streaming Data into Amazon ES from Amazon DynamoDB.