Working with general and email settings
You can modify the default and email settings in the Amazon WorkMail web application.
General settings
The general settings have the following defaults, which can be modified.
 Date format - English (US)
 Address Book - Global Address List
 Keyboard shortcuts - Off
To change the default account settings


In the Amazon WorkMail web application, press Tab.


At the Username prompt, enter your username and press Tab.


At the Password prompt, enter your password and press Tab.


At the Sign in prompt, press Enter. The default starting point for the cursor is the Inbox.


Hold down ShiftTab until the screen reader reads Settings button. Press Enter.


In the Settings screen, the default landing point is the General tab.


Press Tab until the screen reader reads Date format English (US) combo-box read only. Hold down AltDown to open the field and use the Up/Down arrows to select the date format.


Press Enter to confirm the selection.


Press Tab to move to the next section, which is Mailbox Usage. This section is read-only. Press Tab again to reach Address Book.


Use AltDown to open the Select Default Folder menu, and the Up/Down arrows to change the default view. Press Enter to accept the change.


Press Tab to move to the Keyboard shortcuts menu. The default setting for this is off. Press Tab to select the field. You can select and clear the box using the Spacebar.


Hold down ShiftTab until the screen reader reads Save changes button. Press Enter to save the changes. 
Note
Restart Amazon WorkMail to have the date format and keyboard shortcut changes take effect.


Email settings
Email settings have the following defaults, which can be modified.
 Display preview pane - Right
 Close email when responding - On
 Format - HTML
 Default font - Narrow Sans Serif
 Default font size - Normal
 Always request a read receipt - Off
 Incoming mail - Ask me before sending a response
To change email settings


In the Amazon WorkMail web application, hold down ShiftTab until the screen reader reads Settings button. Press Enter.


In the Settings screen, the default landing is the General tab. Press the Down arrow to select the Email tab.


Press Tab to access the Display preview pane field. Hold down Alt and use the Up/Down arrows to choose a display setting.


Press Enter to confirm the selection.


Press Tab to choose whether to Close email when responding, using the Spacebar to select or clear the field.


Press Tab to move to Compose email. 
    For Format, use AltDown and the Up/Down arrows to toggle between HTML and Plain Text. Press Enter to confirm the selection.
    For Default font, use AltDown and the Up/Down arrows to scroll through the list of available fonts. Press Enter to confirm the selection.
    For Default font size, use AltDown and the Up/Down arrows to choose a font display size. Press Enter to confirm the selection.


Press Tab to move to the Always request a read receipt checkbox. Press Spacebar to select or clear the box.


Press Tab to move to Incoming mail for the Respond to read receipt setting. The default setting is Ask me before sending a response.


Press Tab to move to Signatures. Press Enter to open the New signature composer. Compose your signature. When you're finished, hold down ShiftTab until the screen reader reads Save changes button. Press Enter to save the changes.

