Setting up Microsoft Outlook clients for Amazon WorkMail
To get started with Microsoft Outlook, connect Microsoft Outlook to your Amazon WorkMail account.
Topics
 Connecting Microsoft Outlook clients to your Amazon WorkMail account
 Manually connect Microsoft Outlook to Amazon WorkMail
Connecting Microsoft Outlook clients to your Amazon WorkMail account
Amazon WorkMail uses AutoDiscover to configure your Outlook client. To set up your Outlook client, you need your Amazon WorkMail email address and password. Amazon WorkMail integrates with the following versions of Outlook:
 Office Outlook 2007, Outlook 2010, Outlook 2013, Outlook 2016, and Outlook 2019
 Outlook for Mac 2011, Outlook 2016 for Mac, and Outlook 2019 for Mac
Note
If automatic configuration fails, you can manually configure most Outlook clients, except for Outlook 2016 and Outlook 2019 for Windows. For more information, see Manually connect Microsoft Outlook to Amazon WorkMail.
To connect Microsoft Outlook to your Amazon WorkMail account


In Windows, open Control Panel, and choose Mail (32-bit).


In the Mail Setup - Outlook dialog box, choose Show Profiles; and in the Mail dialog box, choose Add. 


In the New Profile dialog box, type WorkMail in the Profile Name field, and choose OK. 


In the Add Account dialog box, in the E-mail Address field, type your Amazon WorkMail email address and choose Next. 
Note
If you're prompted to enter your user name and password, make sure that you enter your full email address as your user name.
If you're prompted to configure server settings in the Allow this website to configure dialog box, select the Don't ask me about this website again check box, and choose Allow.


When your account is set up, and you see a message that says your account is ready to use, choose Finish.


To connect Outlook 2016 for Mac or Outlook 2019 for Mac to your Amazon WorkMail account


In Outlook 2016 for Mac or Outlook 2019 for Mac, do one of the following: 
    If this is the first account you're creating in Outlook 2016 for Mac or Outlook 2019 for Mac, on the Welcome screen, choose Add Email Account, type your email address, choose Continue, and under Choose the provider, choose Exchange.
    If you already have an email account for a different email address, in the Tools menu, choose Accounts. In the Accounts dialog box, choose  (plus sign) and New Account. Type your Email Address, choose Continue, and under Choose the provider, choose Exchange. 


In the Enter your Exchange account information dialog box, for Method, choose User Name and Password and type your email address. 


For Domain\Username or Email, type your email address, and for Password, type your password. 


Choose Add Account to complete setup. 
Note
Outlook attempts to detect your email server settings.
If Outlook prompts you to allow the server to configure your settings, select the Always use my response for this server check box, and choose Allow.


After your account is successfully set up, it displays in the Accounts dialog box.
For more information about adding accounts in Outlook for Mac, see Add an email account to Outlook (Outlook 2016 for Mac, Outlook 2019 for Mac).
Manually connect Microsoft Outlook to Amazon WorkMail
If automatic configuration fails, you can manually configure the following versions of Outlook:
 Office Outlook 2007, Outlook 2010, and Outlook 2013
 Outlook for Mac 2011, Outlook 2016 for Mac, and Outlook 2019 for Mac
Note
Outlook 2016 and Outlook 2019 for Windows can be configured only by using AutoDiscover.
To manually configure Outlook
Follow these steps to manually configure Office Outlook 2007, Outlook 2010, or Outlook 2013.


In Windows, open Control Panel, and choose User Accounts and Mail (32-bit).


In the Mail Setup - Outlook dialog box, choose Show Profiles, and in the Mail dialog box, choose Add. 


In the New Profile dialog box, in the Profile Name field, type WorkMail, and choose OK.


Choose Manual configure server settings or additional server types, then choose Next.


For Server, type the endpoint matching the AWS Region where your mailbox is located.
    us-west-2
outlook.mail.us-west-2.awsapps.com
    us-east-1
outlook.mail.us-east-1.awsapps.com
    eu-west-1
outlook.mail.eu-west-1.awsapps.com
Note
If you don’t know the AWS Region where your mailbox is located, contact your system administrator.


For User name, enter your Amazon WorkMail email address, then choose More settings.


On the Security tab, for Logon network security, choose Anonymous authentication.


From the Connection tab, choose Connect to Microsoft Exchange using HTTP.


Choose Exchange proxy settings, and type the same endpoint matching the AWS Region where your mailbox is located, as you typed in step 5.


Select On fast network connect use HTTP first, then connect using TCP/IP.


For Proxy authentication settings, choose Basic authentication, choose OK, then choose OK again.


Choose Check name, type your Amazon WorkMail email address and password, then choose Next.


After Outlook sets up your account, you’ll see a message that says your account is ready for use. Choose Finish.


To manually configure Outlook for Mac 2011, Outlook 2016 for Mac, and Outlook 2019 for Mac
Follow these steps to manually configure Outlook for Mac 2011, Outlook 2016 for Mac, and Outlook 2019 for Mac.


In the Tools menu, choose Accounts. In the Accounts dialog box, choose  and New Account, type your Email Address, choose Continue, and under Choose the provider, choose Exchange.
    If you’re using Outlook for Mac 2011, uncheck Configure automatically in the Enter your Exchange account information dialog box. For Authentication, choose User Name and Password.


Type your Email address, Password, and User name where indicated. Make sure to type your full password.


For Server, type the endpoint matching the AWS Region where your mailbox is located.
    us-west-2
https://ews.mail.us-west-2.awsapps.com/EWS/Exchange.asmx
    us-east-1
https://ews.mail.us-east-1.awsapps.com/EWS/Exchange.asmx
    eu-west-1
https://ews.mail.eu-west-1.awsapps.com/EWS/Exchange.asmx
Note
If you don’t know the AWS Region where your mailbox is located, contact your system administrator.


Choose Add Account to complete setup.


After your account is successfully set up, it displays in the Accounts dialog box.


For more information about adding accounts in Outlook for Mac, see the following:
 Add an email account to Outlook for Mac 2011
 Add an email account to Outlook (Outlook 2016 for Mac, Outlook 2019 for Mac)