Sharing contacts
You can share your contacts with other users, and view contacts that have been shared with you.
Note
If you share your contacts with a user that has Read permissions, that user can view all of your contacts, potentially including contacts marked Private.
Topics
 Sharing contacts with other users
 Opening shared contacts
Sharing contacts with other users
You can give another user permission to view your contacts.
To share your contacts with another user


In the Amazon WorkMail web application, on the shortcut bar, select the contacts icon.


In the navigation pane, open the context (right-click) menu for the Contacts folder, and choose Properties.


On the User details page, under Permissions, choose Add or remove.


Select the user to share your contacts with and choose >> to add them to the Permissions list. Choose Save.


On the Permissions tab, select the level of permissions to grant, and choose Save.


Opening shared contacts
You can open contacts that other users have shared with you.
To open shared contacts


In the Amazon WorkMail web application, on the shortcut bar, choose the contacts icon.


At the bottom of the navigation pane, choose Open other contacts.


In the Open other folders dialog box, choose Name to open the address book.


Select the owner of contacts to open, and choose OK.


For Folder type, choose Contacts.


To view the subfolders of the shared contacts, choose Show subfolders.


Choose OK.


The shared contacts are now visible in the folder navigation pane.
Note
Your opened folders are stored in your Amazon WorkMail web application profile. The next time you sign in to the Amazon WorkMail web application, the opened folders are still displayed.
If you receive a message saying that You have insufficient privileges to open this folder, contact the owner of the folder and ask them to grant you access.
To change folder permissions, in the navigation pane, open the context (right-click) menu for the folder, and choose Properties, Permissions.