Working with email
You can send, read, reply to, and delete email in Amazon WorkMail.
To send email
You can create and send email to one or more recipients, include attachments, set the priority, and add flags to indicate importance.


In the Amazon WorkMail web application, press Tab until the screen reader reads Create new item, button list item. Press Enter.


The message opens with the cursor in the To field. Add a contact using one of the following methods:
    Add a contact from the Address Book. Hold down ShiftTab to highlight the To field, then press Enter. Start typing a contact's name into the field. A list of suggested matching names is provided. Use the Up/Down arrows to navigate through the list. Press Enter to select a contact. To add multiple contacts, continue selecting names; the separator is added automatically.
    Search for the contact. You can search for a contact using the Using the global address book.
Note
If a recipient's name is ambiguous or has multiple matches, the screen reader reads Check ambiguous names, dialog. Select the correct recipient from the list provided. 


Press Tab to navigate to and set the Cc, Bcc, From, Subject, High Priority, Low Priority, Set Flag, and Options fields for the message.


Press Tab to get to the message composition field and type your message.


To send the message, use ShiftTab until the screen reader reads Send button. Press Enter to send.
Note
If there are any unresolved recipients, the screen reader reads Not all recipients could be resolved. OK button. Review the recipients and correct them as needed.


To read email
Reading the email in your inbox.


In the Amazon WorkMail web application, press Tab and, depending on your screen reader, use the Up/Down arrow keys or table navigation to navigate through the messages.


Select the row of the message to read. Press Enter to open the message in a new tab.


Press Tab to navigate through the Response toolbar. Use the Up/Down arrows to navigate through the page and read the body of the message line by line.


To reply to email


In the Amazon WorkMail web application, press Tab to navigate to the message. Use the Up/Down arrows to navigate scroll through the messages in the table.


Select the row of the message to read. Press Enter to open the message in a new tab.


Use Tab to read the Response toolbar. You can select Reply, Reply All, Forward, or Delete. You can navigate using the screen reader or the following keyboard shortcuts:   
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]


Type your reply in the message form. To send the message, use ShiftTab until the screen reader reads Send button. Press Enter to send.


To delete email
When you no longer need a message, you can delete it. This also helps free up space in your inbox.


In the Amazon WorkMail web application, press Tab to navigate to the message. Use the Up/Down arrows to scroll through the messages in the table.


Select the row of the message to read. Press Enter to open the message in a new tab.


To delete the message, press Delete on your keyboard. You can also navigate to the Delete button using ShiftTab.


To copy and move email
You can copy email or move it from one folder to another.


In the Amazon WorkMail web application, press Tab to navigate to the message. Use the Up/Down arrows to scroll through the messages in the table.


Press ShiftTab until the screen reader reads Copy/Move button.


In the Copy/move message dialog, choose the destination folder. Then use Tab to select either Copy or Move.


Press Enter to complete the action.


To search for email
You can search all the folders to find a specific message.


In the Amazon WorkMail web application, press Tab to navigate until the screen reader reads Mail action toolbar, toolbar, search text, edit text.


Type the keyword into the search bar, and press Enter.


To clear the search term, press Tab until the screen reader reads Clear search button and the focus moves to the X button, then press Enter. To search again, repeat the process.

