Removing member accounts from a behavior graph
The master account can remove member accounts from a behavior graph at any time. When a member account is removed from a behavior graph, the following occurs.
 The member account is removed from My member accounts.
 Amazon Detective stops ingesting data from the removed account.
Detective does not remove any existing data from the behavior graph, which aggregates data across member accounts.
Removing member accounts from a behavior graph (Console)
From your master account, you can use the AWS Management Console to remove member accounts from a behavior graph.
To remove member accounts (console)


Open the Detective console.


In the Detective navigation pane, choose Account management.


Under My member accounts, select the check box for each member account to delete.


You cannot delete your own account from the list.


Choose Manage accounts. Then choose Remove account.


When prompted to confirm, enter remove.


Choose Remove member accounts.


Removing member accounts from a behavior graph (Detective API, AWS CLI)
From your master account, you can use the Detective API or the AWS Command Line Interface to remove member accounts from a behavior graph.
To use remove member accounts from your behavior graph (Detective API, AWS CLI)
 Detective API: Use the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/detective/latest/APIReference/API_DeleteMembers.html operation. Specify the graph ARN and the list of account identifiers for the member accounts to remove.
 AWS CLI: At the command line, run the delete-members command.
aws detective delete-members --account-ids <account ID list> --graph-arn <behavior graph ARN>
Example:
aws detective delete-members --account-ids 444455556666 123456789012 --graph-arn arn:aws:detective:us-east-1:111122223333:graph:123412341234
Removing a list of member accounts across Regions (Python script on GitHub)
Detective provides an open-source script in GitHub. You can use this script to remove a specified list of member accounts from the master account's behavior graphs across a specified list of Regions.
For information on how to configure and use the GitHub scripts, see Using the Amazon Detective Python scripts.