Creating an Amazon SQS queue (console)
You can use the Amazon SQS console to create standard queues and FIFO queues. The console provides default values for all fields except for the queue name. 
To create an Amazon SQS queue (console)


Open the Amazon SQS console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/sqs/.


Choose Create queue.


On the Create queue page, ensure that you set the correct region.


The Standard queue type is selected by default. To create a FIFO queue, choose FIFO.


You can't change the queue type after you create a queue. 


Enter a Name for your queue. The name of a FIFO queue must end with the .fifo suffix.


To create a queue using all of the default settings, scroll to the end of the page and choose Create queue. After you create the queue, you can edit all of the queue configuration settings (except the queue type). 


(Optional) The console sets default values for the queue configuration parameters. You can set new values for the following parameters. For additional information, see Configuration parameters. 


For Visibility timeout , enter the duration and units. The range is 0 seconds to 12 hours. The default value is 30 seconds.


For Message retention period, enter the duration and units. The range is 1 minute to 14 days. The default value is 4 days.


For Delivery delay, enter the duration and units. The range is 0 seconds to 15 minutes. The default value is 0 seconds.


For Maximum message size, enter a value. The range is 1 byte to 256 KB. The default value is 256 KB. 


For a standard queue, enter a value for Receive message wait time. The range is 0 to 20 seconds. The default value is 0 seconds, which sets short polling. Any non-zero value sets long polling.


For a FIFO queue, choose Content-based deduplication to enable content-based deduplication. The default setting is disabled. 


(Optional) Define an Access policy. The access policy defines the accounts, users, and roles that can access the queue. The access policy also defines the actions (such as SendMessage, ReceiveMessage, or DeleteMessage) that the users can access. The default policy allows only the queue owner to send and receive messages. 


You can configure basic and advanced settings for the policy. 


In the basic settings, you configure who can send messages to the queue, and who can receive messages from the queue. The read-only JSON panel displays the resulting access policy for the queue. 


In the advanced settings, you modify the JSON access policy directly. This allows you to specify a custom set of actions that each principal (account, user, or role) can perform. 


(Optional) Add Encryption to the queue.


(Optional) Add a Dead-letter queue to receive undeliverable messages.


(Optional) Add Tags to the queue.


When you finish configuring the queue, choose Create queue. Amazon SQS creates the queue and displays the queue's Details page.


Amazon SQS propagates information about the new queue across the system. Because Amazon SQS is a distributed system, you might experience a slight delay before the queue is displayed on the Queues page. 
After creating a queue, you can send messages to it, and receive and delete messages.