Virtual nodes
A virtual node acts as a logical pointer to a particular task group, such as an Amazon ECS service or a Kubernetes deployment. When you create a virtual node, you must specify a service discovery method for your task group. Any inbound traffic that your virtual node expects is specified as a listener. Any virtual service that a virtual node sends outbound traffic to is specified as a backend.
The response metadata for your new virtual node contains the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) that is associated with the virtual node. Set this value (either the full ARN or the truncated resource name) as the APPMESH_VIRTUAL_NODE_NAME environment variable for your task group's Envoy proxy container in your Amazon ECS task definition or Kubernetes pod spec. For example, the value could be mesh/default/virtualNode/simpleapp. This is then mapped to the node.id and node.cluster Envoy parameters.
Note
If you require your Envoy stats or tracing to use a different name, you can override the node.cluster value that is set by APPMESH_VIRTUAL_NODE_NAME with the APPMESH_VIRTUAL_NODE_CLUSTER environment variable.
Creating a virtual node
To create a virtual node using the AWS CLI version 1.18.116 or higher, see the example in the AWS CLI reference for the create-virtual-node command.
To create a virtual node using the AWS Management Console


Open the App Mesh console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/appmesh/. 


Choose the mesh that you want to create the virtual node in. All of the meshes that you own and that have been shared with you are listed.


Choose Virtual nodes in the left navigation.


Choose Create virtual node.


Specify settings for your virtual node.


Virtual node configuration

For Virtual node name, enter a name for your virtual node.
For Service discovery method, choose one of the following options:
DNS – Specify the DNS hostname of the actual service that the virtual node represents. The Envoy proxy is deployed in an Amazon VPC. The proxy sends name resolution requests to the DNS server that is configured for the VPC. If the hostname resolves, the DNS server returns one or more IP addresses. For more information about VPC DNS settings, see Using DNS with your VPC. If the DNS server returns multiple IP addresses, then the Envoy proxy chooses one of the addresses using the Logical DNS service discovery type.
AWS Cloud Map – Specify an existing Service name and Namespace. Optionally, you can also specify attributes that App Mesh can query AWS Cloud Map for by selecting Add row and specifying a Key and Value. Only instances that match all of the specified key/value pairs will be returned. To use AWS Cloud Map, your account must have the AWSServiceRoleForAppMesh service-linked role. For more information about AWS Cloud Map, see the AWS Cloud Map Developer Guide.
None – Select if your virtual node doesn't expect any inbound traffic.


(Optional) Client policy defaults – Configure default requirements when communicating to backend virtual services.
Note
If you want to enable Transport Layer Security (TLS) for an existing virtual node, then we recommend that you create a new virtual node, which represents the same service as the existing virtual node, on which to enable TLS. Then gradually shift traffic to the new virtual node using a virtual router and route. For more information about creating a route and adjusting weights for the transition, see Routes. If you update an existing, traffic-serving virtual node with TLS, there is a chance that the downstream client Envoy proxies will receive TLS validation context before the Envoy proxy for the virtual node that you have updated receives the certificate. This can cause TLS negotiation errors on the downstream Envoy proxies.
Proxy authorization must be enabled for the Envoy proxy deployed with the application represented by the backend service's virtual nodes. We recommend that when you enable proxy authorization, you restrict access to only the virtual nodes that this virtual node is communicating with.
(Optional) Select Enforce TLS if you want to require the virtual node to communicate with all backends using Transport Layer Security (TLS).
(Optional) If you only want to require the use of TLS for one or more specific ports, then enter a number in Ports. To add additional ports, select Add port. If you don't specify any ports, TLS is enforced for all ports.
For Certificate discovery method, select one of the following options. The certificate that you specify must already exist and meet specific requirements. For more information, see Certificate requirements.
AWS Certificate Manager Private Certificate Authority hosting – Select one or more existing Certificates. For a complete, end-to-end walk through of deploying a mesh with a sample application using encryption with an ACM certificate, see Configuring TLS with AWS Certificate Manager on GitHub.
Local file hosting – Specify the path to the Certificate chain file on the file system where the Envoy is deployed. For a complete, end-to-end walk through of deploying a mesh with a sample application using encryption with local files, see Configuring TLS with File Provided TLS Certificates on GitHub.



(Optional) Service backends – Specify the App Mesh virtual service that the virtual node will communicate with.

Enter an App Mesh virtual service name or full Amazon Resource Name (ARN) for the virtual service that your virtual node communicates with.
(Optional) If you set Client policy defaults, but want to override them with unique TLS settings for a backend, select TLS settings and then select Override defaults.
(Optional) Select Enforce TLS if you want to require the virtual node to communicate with all backends using TLS.
(Optional) If you only want to require the use of TLS for one or more specific ports, then enter a number in Ports. To add additional ports, select Add port. If you don't specify any ports, TLS is enforced for all ports.
For Certificate discovery method, select one of the following options. The certificate that you specify must already exist and meet specific requirements. For more information, see Certificate requirements.
AWS Certificate Manager Private Certificate Authority hosting – Select one or more existing Certificates.
Local file hosting – Specify the path to the Certificate chain file on the file system where the Envoy is deployed.



To add additional backends, select Add backend.
       (Optional) Logging
To configure logging, enter the HTTP access logs path that you want Envoy to use. We recommend the /dev/stdout path so that you can use Docker log drivers to export your Envoy logs to a service such as Amazon CloudWatch Logs.
Note
Logs must still be ingested by an agent in your application and sent to a destination. This file path only instructs Envoy where to send the logs. 




Listener configuration

If your virtual node expects ingress traffic, specify a Port and Protocol for the Listener. The http listener permits connection transition to websockets.

(Optional) Enable health check – Configure settings for a health check policy.
A health check policy is optional, but if you specify any values for a health policy, then you must specify values for Healthy threshold, Health check interval, Health check protocol, Timeout period, and Unhealthy threshold.
 For Health check protocol, choose a protocol. If you select grpc, then your service must conform to the GRPC Health Checking Protocol.
 For Health check port, specify the port that the health check should run on.
 For Healthy threshold, specify the number of consecutive successful health checks that must occur before declaring the listener healthy.
 For Health check interval, specify the time period in milliseconds between each health check execution.
 For Path, specify the destination path for the health check request. This value is only used if the Health check protocol is http or http2. The value is ignored for other protocols.
 For Timeout period, specify the amount of time to wait when receiving a response from the health check, in milliseconds.
 For Unhealthy threshold, specify the number of consecutive failed health checks that must occur before declaring the listener unhealthy.
       (Optional) Enable TLS termination – Configure how other virtual nodes communicate with this virtual node using TLS.
 For Mode, select the mode you want TLS to be configured for on the listener.
 For Certificate method, select one of the following options. The certificate must meet specific requirements. For more information, see Certificate requirements.
   AWS Certificate Manager hosting – Select an existing Certificate.
   Local file hosting – Specify the path to the Certificate chain and Private key files on the file system where the Envoy proxy is deployed.
       (Optional) Timeouts.
 Request timeout – You can specify a request timeout if you selected grpc, http, or http2 for the listener's Protocol. The default is 15 seconds. If increasing the timeout, make sure that the timeout specified for any route that is used for a Service backend is also greater than 15 seconds. For more information, see Routes.
 Idle duration – You can specify an idle duration for any listener protocol.




Choose Create virtual node to finish.


Deleting a virtual node
To delete a virtual node using the AWS CLI, use the aws appmesh delete-virtual-node command. For an example of deleting a virtual node using the AWS CLI, see delete-virtual-node.
Note
You can't delete a virtual node if it is specified as a target in any route or as a provider in any virtual service.
To delete a virtual node using the AWS Management Console


Open the App Mesh console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/appmesh/. 


Choose the mesh that you want to delete a virtual node from. All of the meshes that you own and that have been shared with you are listed.


Choose Virtual nodes in the left navigation.


In the Virtual Nodes table, choose the virtual node that you want to delete and select Delete. To delete a virtual node, your account ID must be listed in either the Mesh owner or the Resource owner columns of the virtual node.


In the confirmation box, type delete and then select Delete.

