Working with Tags on Workgroups in the Console
Using the Athena console, you can see which tags are in use by each workgroup in your account. You can view tags by workgroup only. You can also use the Athena console to apply, edit, or remove tags from one workgroup at a time.
You can search workgroups using the tags you created.
Topics
 Displaying Tags for Individual Workgroups
 Adding and Deleting Tags on an Individual Workgroup
Displaying Tags for Individual Workgroups
You can display tags for an individual workgroup in the Athena console. 
To view a list of tags for a workgroup, select the workgroup, choose View Details, and then choose the Tags tab. The list of tags for the workgroup displays. You can also view tags on a workgroup if you choose Edit Workgroup.
To search for tags, choose the Tags tab, and then enter a tag name into the search tool.
Adding and Deleting Tags on an Individual Workgroup
You can manage tags for an individual workgroup directly from the Workgroups tab.
Note
If you want users to add tags when they create a workgroup in the console or pass in tags when they use the CreateWorkGroup action, make sure that you give the users IAM permissions to the TagResource and CreateWorkGroup actions.
To add a tag when creating a new workgroup


Open the Athena console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/athena/.


On the navigation menu, choose the Workgroups tab.


Choose Create workgroup and fill in the values, as needed. For detailed steps, see Create a Workgroup.


Add one or more tags, by specifying keys and values. Do not add duplicate tag keys at the same time to the same workgroup. If you do, Athena issues an error message. For more information, see Tag Restrictions.


When you are done, choose Create Workgroup.


To add or edit a tag to an existing workgroup


Open the Athena console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/athena/, choose the Workgroups tab, and select the workgroup.


Choose View details.


Do one of the following:
    Choose the Tags tab, and then choose Manage tags. 
    Choose Edit workgroup, and then scroll down to the Tags section.


Specify the key and value for each tag. For more information, see Tag Restrictions.


Choose Save.


To delete a tag from an individual workgroup


Open the Athena console, and then choose the Workgroups tab.


In the workgroup list, select the workgroup, and then choose View details.


Do one of the following:
    Choose the Tags tab, and then choose Manage tags. 
    Choose Edit workgroup, and then scroll down to the Tags section.


In the list of tags, select the delete button (x) for the tag that you want to delete, and then choose Save.

