Example: Creating a FAQ Bot for an Amazon Kendra Index
This example creates an Amazon Lex bot that uses an Amazon Kendra index to provide answers to users' questions. The FAQ bot manages the dialog for the user. It uses the AMAZON.KendraSearchIntent intent to query the index and to present the response to the user. To create the bot, you: 


Create a bot that your customers will interact with to get answers from your bot.


Create a custom intent. Your bot requires at least one intent with at least one utterance. This intent enables your bot to build, but is not used otherwise.


Add the KendraSearchIntent intent to your bot and configure it to work with your Amazon Kendra index.


Test the bot by asking questions that are answered by documents stored in your Amazon Kendra index.


Before you can use this example, you need to create an Amazon Kendra index. For more information, see Getting started with an S3 bucket (console)  in the Amazon Kendra Developer Guide.
To create a FAQ bot


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon Lex console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/lex/.


In the navigation pane, choose Bots. 


Choose Create.


Choose Custom bot. Configure the bot as follows:
    Bot name – Give the bot a name that indicates its purpose, such as KendraTestBot.
    Output voice – Choose None.
    Session timeout – Enter 5.
    Sentiment analysis – Choose No.
    COPPA – Choose No.
    User utterance storage – Choose Do not store.


Choose Create.


To successfully build a bot, you must create at least one intent with at least one sample utterance. This intent is required to build your Amazon Lex bot, but isn't used for the FAQ response. The utterance for the intent must not apply to any of the questions that your customer asks.
To create the required intent


On the Getting started with your bot page, choose Create intent.


For Add intent, choose Create intent.


In the Create intent dialog box, give the intent a name, such as RequiredIntent.


For Sample utterances, type an utterance, such as Required utterance.


Choose Save intent.


Now, create the intent to search an Amazon Kendra index and the response messages that it should return.
To create an AMAZON.KendraSearchIntent intent and response message


In the navigation pane, choose the plus () next to Intents.


For Add intent, choose Search existing intents.


In the Search intentsbox, enter AMAZON.KendraSearchIntent, then choose it from the list.


For Copy built-in intent, give the intent a name, such as KendraSearchIntent, and then choose Add. 


In the intent editor, choose Amazon Kendra query to open the query options.


From the Amazon Kendra index menu, choose the index that you want the intent to search.


In the Response section, add the following three messages:


I found a FAQ question for you: ((x-amz-lex:kendra-search-response-question_answer-question-1)) and the answer is ((x-amz-lex:kendra-search-response-question_answer-answer-1)).
   I found an excerpt from a helpful document: ((x-amz-lex:kendra-search-response-document-1)).
   I think the answer to your questions is ((x-amz-lex:kendra-search-response-answer-1)).

Choose Save intent, and then choose Build to build the bot.

Finally, use the console test window to test responses from your bot. Your questions should be in the domain that your index supports.
To test your FAQ bot


In the console test window, type a question for your index.


Verify the answer in the test window's response section.


To reset the test window for another question, choose Clear chat history.

