Consulting partner setup
To create a consulting partner private offer, you must be registered through the AWS Marketplace Management Portal as an AWS Marketplace seller. The following topics can help you get started as a AWS Marketplace seller.
 Getting started as a seller
 Preparing your product
 Submitting your product for publication
 Seller reports and data feeds
If you're new to providing products on AWS Marketplace, the following topics can help you better understand the kinds of products available:
 AMI-based products
 Software as a service (SaaS)–based products
Putting an agreement in place with an ISV
Before a consulting partner can create a private offer they must work with the ISV to complete the AWS Marketplace Reseller Authorization form. Once filled out, email the forms to mpcustdesk@amazon.com or to your AWS Marketplace channel account manager. The form includes the following information:
 The product or products that the consulting partner can resell.
 The percentage (%) reduction off the prices listed on AWS Marketplace.
 The AWS account ID that the consulting partner used to register as an AWS Marketplace seller.
After AWS receives the completed and signed form, and finalizes the information, the consulting partner will be an authorized reseller for that product.
Extending a private offer based on a recurring discount
For recurring discount private offers, an ISV authorizes a consulting partner to resell one or more of their products on AWS Marketplace. The discount is an agreed-to percentage discount off the product’s list price, called the wholesale price. Consulting partners can use the discount with any number of buyers.
The following procedure outlines how a consulting partner can extend a private offer based on a recurring discount. 
To extend a private offer based on a recurring discount


Determine what your offer price will be by marking up the wholesale price by a percentage.


Sign into the AWS Marketplace Management Portal.


Choose the Offers tab.


Choose the Product for private offer, the Buyer account id(s), and then choose Next.


Choose the pricing details of the offer (including the marked up price by a percentage), provide the End User License Agreement (EULA), and the dates for the offer. Afterwards, choose Review Offer.


Review the offer, and then choose Extend Offer.


The publishing process for this offer can take up to 45 minutes to complete. Once complete, the offer will be visible on the Manage Offers page.
Accepted offers
After the buyer accepts the private offer from the consulting partner, the offer and any disbursement of funds occur in the same manner:


AWS Marketplace invoices the buyer on their existing AWS bill per the terms of the private offer. If the private offer is extended to a linked account, the invoiced amount appears on the payer account associated with that linked account.


The buyer pays their AWS bill in accordance with the net payment terms that they agreed to with AWS. The private offer process enables custom terms for each transaction, but net payment terms aren't customizable. 


After AWS receives payment from the buyer, AWS disburses payment to you and the ISV. The ISV receives the wholesale cost minus the AWS Marketplace fee. You receive your markup minus the AWS Marketplace processing fee. All fees are percentages applied to the transaction amounts listed. If you're not sure of the fee percentages and need this information for quoting purposes, contact your AWS Marketplace channel account manager. If you don’t know who that is, email the AWS Marketplace channel team at aws-mp-channel@amazon.com, and someone on the team will respond to you within 24 hours. 


AWS Marketplace provides electronic reports to the ISV and to you using the AWS Marketplace Management Portal. These reports have the following differences depending on the type of private offer:
    For recurring discount private offers, the ISV sees you as the buyer and you see the subscriber as the buyer
    For non-recurring discount private offers, the ISV and the consulting partner see the subscriber as the buyer


For more information on AWS Marketplace reporting, see Seller Reporting.