Data feeds
AWS Marketplace provides a number of data feeds to help sellers collect and analyze information about your product sales. Data feeds are available to all registered AWS Marketplace sellers. Since data feeds are generated within a day, they contain the most current data available.
This page provides an overview of data feeds, and explains how to access and use them. Subsequent pages describe each data feed. 
Storage and structure of data feeds
Data feeds collect and deliver comma-separated value (CSV) files to an encrypted Amazon S3 bucket that you provide. The CSV files have the following characteristics:
 They follow 4180 standards.
 Character encoding is UTF-8 without BOM.
 Commas are used as separators between values.
 Fields are escaped by double quotation marks. 
 \n is the line feed character.
 Dates are reported in the UTC time zone, are in ISO 8601 date and time format, and are accurate within 1 second.
 All *_period_start_date and *_period_end_date values are inclusive, which means that 23:59:59 is the last possible timestamp for any day. 
 All monetary fields are preceded with a currency field. 
 Monetary fields use a period (.) character as a decimal separator, and don't use a comma (,) as a thousands separator. 
Data feeds are generated and stored as follows:
 Data feeds are generated within a day, and contain 24 hours of data from the previous day. 
 In the Amazon S3 bucket, data feeds are organized by month using the following format:
bucket-name/data-feed-name_version/year=YYYY/month=MM/data.csv
 As each daily data feed is generated, it is appended to the existing CSV file for that month. When a new month starts, a new CSV file is generated for each data feed. 
 Information in data feeds is backfilled from 2010/01/01 to 2020/04/30 (inclusive) and is available in the CSV file in the year=2010/month=01 subfolder.
You may notice cases where the current month's file for a given data feed contains only only column headers, and no data. This means that there were no new entries for that month for the feed. This can happen with data feeds that are updated less frequently, like the product feed. In these cases, data is available in the backfilled folder. 
 In Amazon S3, you can create an Amazon S3 lifecycle policy to manage how long to keep files in the bucket. 
 You can configure Amazon SNS to notify you when data is delivered to your encrypted S3 bucket. For information on how to configure notifications, see Getting started with Amazon SNS in the Amazon Simple Notification Service Developer Guide.
Historization of the data
Each data feed includes columns that document the history of the data. Except for valid_to, these columns are common to all data feeds. They're included as a common history schema and are useful in querying the data. 



Column name
Description




valid_from
The first date that the value for the primary key is valid for in relation to values for other fields.


valid_to
This column is only shown on the Address data feed and is always blank.


insert_date
The date a record was inserted into the data feed.


update_date
The date the record was last updated.


delete_date
This column is always blank.



The following shows an example of these columns. 



valid_from
valid_to
insert_date
update_date
delete_date




2018-12-12T02:32:00Z

2019-03-29T02:00:00Z
2019-03-29T02:00:00Z



2018-12-20T02:32:00Z

2019-03-29T02:00:00Z
2019-03-29T02:00:00Z



2019-01-12T02:32:00Z

2019-03-28T03:00:00Z
2019-03-28T03:00:00Z




Accessing data feeds
To access data feeds, you need to configure your environment to receive data feeds to an encrypted Amazon S3 bucket. AWS Marketplace provides an AWS CloudFormation template that you can use to simplify configuration.
Note
To access data feeds, you need an IAM role that grants access to AWS Marketplace. You'll use that role as you complete the AWS CloudFormation template. If you don't already have an IAM role, see IAM roles in the IAM User Guide. 
To use the AWS CloudFormation template to configure your environment to receive data feeds


Go to Set up customer data storage.


Choose Create resources with AWS CloudFormation template to open the template in the AWS CloudFormation console in another window.


In the template, specify the following and then choose Next:
    Stack name – The collection of resources you're creating to enable access to data feeds.
    Amazon S3 bucket name – The bucket for storing data feeds.
    (Optional) Amazon SNS topic name – The topic for receiving notifications when AWS delivers new data to the Amazon S3 bucket.


On the Review page, confirm your entries and choose Create stack. 


On the next screen, choose the IAM role you created to use with AWS Marketplace (see the Note the precedes this procedure) and then choose Next.


From the Resources tab, copy Amazon Resource Names (ARNs) for the following resources into the fields on the AWS Marketplace Set up customer data storage page:
    Amazon S3 bucket for storing data feeds
    AWS KMS key for encrypting the Amazon S3 bucket
    (Optional) Amazon SNS topic for receiving notifications when AWS delivers new data to the Amazon S3 bucket


On the Set up customer data storage page, choose Submit.


You are now subscribed to data feeds. The next time data feeds are generated, you can access the data.
For more information about AWS CloudFormation templates, see Working with AWS CloudFormation templates in the AWS CloudFormation User Guide.
Using data feeds
When data is available in your Amazon S3 bucket, you can use data feeds in the following ways:
 Download the .CSV files from the Amazon S3 bucket you created in Accessing data feeds so that you can view the data in a spreadsheet.
 Use ETL (extract, transform, and load), SQL query, business analytics tools to collect and analyze the data.
You can use AWS services to collect and analyze data, or any third-party tool that can perform analysis of .CSV-based datasets.
Example: Use AWS services to collect and analyze data
The following procedure assumes that you've already configured your environment to receive data feeds to an Amazon S3 bucket and that the bucket contains data feeds.
To collect and analyze data from data feeds

From the AWS Glue console, create a crawler to connect to the Amazon S3 bucket that stores the data feeds, extract the data you want, and create metadata tables in the AWS Glue Data Catalog.

For more information about AWS Glue, see the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/glue/latest/dg/what-is-glue.html.

From the Athena console, run SQL queries on the data in the AWS Glue Data Catalog.

For more information about Athena see the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/athena/latest/ug/what-is.html. 

From the Amazon QuickSight console, create an analysis and then create a visual of the data.

For more information about Amazon QuickSight, see the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/quicksight/latest/user/welcome.html.
For a detailed example of one way to use AWS services to collect and analyze data in data feeds, see Using Seller Data Feed Delivery Service, Amazon Athena, and Amazon QuickSight to create seller reports at the AWS Marketplace Blog.