Tags for your target group
Tags help you to categorize your target groups in different ways, for example, by purpose, owner, or environment.
You can add multiple tags to each target group. Tag keys must be unique for each target group. If you add a tag with a key that is already associated with the target group, it updates the value of that tag.
When you are finished with a tag, you can remove it.
Restrictions
 Maximum number of tags per resource—50
 Maximum key length—127 Unicode characters
 Maximum value length—255 Unicode characters
 Tag keys and values are case sensitive. Allowed characters are letters, spaces, and numbers representable in UTF-8, plus the following special characters:  - = . _ : / @. Do not use leading or trailing spaces.
 Do not use the aws: prefix in your tag names or values because it is reserved for AWS use. You can't edit or delete tag names or values with this prefix. Tags with this prefix do not count against your tags per resource limit. 

[ New console ]
To update the tags for a target group using the new console


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


On the navigation pane, under LOAD BALANCING, choose Target Groups.


Choose the name of the target group to open its details page.


On the Tags tab, choose Manage tags and do one or more of the following:


To update a tag, enter new values for Key and Value.


To add a tag, choose Add tag and enter values for Key and Value.


To delete a tag, choose Remove next to the tag.


When you have finished updating tags, choose Save changes.



[ Old console ]
To update the tags for a target group using the console


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


On the navigation pane, under LOAD BALANCING, choose Target Groups.


Select the target group.


On the Tags tab, choose Add/Edit Tags, and then do one or more of the following:


To update a tag, edit the values of Key and Value.


To add a new tag, choose Create Tag and then type values for Key and Value.


To delete a tag, choose the delete icon (X) next to the tag.


When you have finished updating tags, choose Save.



To update the tags for a target group using the AWS CLI
Use the add-tags and remove-tags commands.