Tutorial: Schedule Automated Amazon EBS Snapshots Using EventBridge
You can run EventBridge rules according to a schedule. In this tutorial, you create an automated snapshot of an existing Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) volume on a schedule. You can choose a fixed rate to create a snapshot every few minutes or use a cron expression to specify that the snapshot is made at a specific time of day.
Important
Creating rules with built-in targets is supported only on the AWS Management Console.
Step 1: Create a Rule
Create a rule that takes snapshots on a schedule. You can use a rate expression or a cron expression to specify the schedule. For more information, see Schedule Expressions for Rules.
To create a rule


Open the Amazon EventBridge console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/events/.


In the navigation pane, choose Rules.


Choose Create rule.


Enter a name and description for the rule.


For Define pattern, do the following:


Choose Schedule.


Choose Fixed rate every and specify the schedule interval (for example, 5 minutes). Alternatively, choose Cron expression and specify a cron expression (for example, every 15 minutes Monday through Friday, starting at the current time).


For Select event bus, choose AWS default event bus. Scheduled rules are supported only on the default event bus.


For Target, choose select EC2 CreateSnapshot API call.


For Volume ID, enter the volume ID of the targeted Amazon EBS volume.


Choose Create a new role for this specific resource. The new role grants the target permissions to access resources on your behalf.


Choose Create.


Step 2: Test the Rule
You can verify your rule by viewing your first snapshot after it's taken.
To test your rule


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


In the navigation pane, choose Elastic Block Store, Snapshots.


Verify that the first snapshot appears in the list.


(Optional) When you're finished, disable the rule to prevent additional snapshots from being taken.


Open the Amazon EventBridge console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/events/.


In the navigation pane, choose Rules.


Select the button next to the rule and choose Disable.


When prompted for confirmation, choose Disable.

