Creating a Compute Environment
Before you can run jobs in AWS Batch, you need to create a compute environment. You can create a managed compute environment, where AWS Batch manages the instances within the environment based on your specifications, or you can create an unmanaged compute environment where you handle the instance configuration within the environment.
To create a managed compute environment


Open the AWS Batch console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/batch/.


From the navigation bar, select the region to use.


In the navigation pane, choose Compute environments, Create environment.


Configure the environment.


For Compute environment type, choose Managed.


For Compute environment name, specify a unique name for your compute environment. You can use up to 128 letters (uppercase and lowercase), numbers, hyphens, and underscores.


For Service role, choose to create a new role or use an existing role. The role allows the AWS Batch service to make calls to the required AWS APIs on your behalf. For more information, see AWS Batch Service IAM Role. If you choose to create a new role, the required role (AWSBatchServiceRole) is created for you.


For Instance role, choose to create a new instance profile or use an existing instance profile that has the required IAM permissions attached. This instance profile allows the Amazon ECS container instances that are created for your compute environment to make calls to the required AWS APIs on your behalf. For more information, see Amazon ECS Instance Role. If you choose to create a new instance profile, the required role (ecsInstanceRole) is created for you.


For EC2 key pair choose an existing Amazon EC2 key pair to associate with the instance at launch. This key pair allows you to connect to your instances with SSH (ensure that your security group allows ingress on port 22).


Ensure that Enable compute environment is selected so that your compute environment can accept jobs from the AWS Batch job scheduler.


Configure your compute resources.


For Provisioning model, choose On-Demand to launch Amazon EC2 On-Demand Instances or Spot to use Amazon EC2 Spot Instances.


If you chose to use Spot Instances:


(Optional) For Maximum Price, choose the maximum percentage that a Spot Instance price can be when compared with the On-Demand price for that instance type before instances are launched. For example, if your maximum price is 20%, then the Spot price must be below 20% of the current On-Demand price for that EC2 instance. You always pay the lowest (market) price and never more than your maximum percentage. If you leave this field empty, the default value is 100% of the On-Demand price.


For Spot fleet role, choose an existing Amazon EC2 Spot Fleet IAM role to apply to your Spot compute environment. If you do not already have an existing Amazon EC2 Spot Fleet IAM role, you must create one first. For more information, see Amazon EC2 Spot Fleet Role.
Important
To tag your Spot Instances on creation (see Step 7), your Amazon EC2 Spot Fleet IAM role must use the newer AmazonEC2SpotFleetTaggingRole managed policy. The AmazonEC2SpotFleetRole managed policy does not have the required permissions to tag Spot Instances. For more information, see Spot Instances Not Tagged on Creation.




For Allowed instance types, choose the Amazon EC2 instance types that may be launched. You can specify instance families to launch any instance type within those families (for example, c5, c5n, or p3), or you can specify specific sizes within a family (such as c5.8xlarge). Note that metal instance types are not in the instance families (for example c5 does not include c5.metal.) You can also choose optimal to pick instance types (from the C, M, and R instance families) on the fly that match the demand of your job queues.
Note
When you create a compute environment, the instance types that you select for the compute environment must share the same architecture. For example, you can't mix x86 and ARM instances in the same compute environment.
Note
AWS Batch will scale GPUs based on the required amount in your job queues. In order to use GPU scheduling, the compute environment must include instance types from the p2, p3, g3, g3s, or g4 families.


For Allocation strategy, choose the allocation strategy to use when selecting instance types from the list of allowed instance types. For more information, see Allocation Strategies.


(Optional) For Launch template, select an existing Amazon EC2 launch template to configure your compute resources; the default version of the template is automatically populated. For more information, see Launch Template Support.


(Optional) For Launch template version, enter $Default, $Latest, or a specific version number to use.
Important
After the compute environment is created, the launch template version used will not be changed, even if the $Default or $Latest version for the launch template is updated. To use a new launch template version, create a new compute environment, add the new compute environment to the existing job queue, remove the old compute environment from the job queue, and delete the old compute environment.


For Minimum vCPUs, choose the minimum number of EC2 vCPUs that your compute environment should maintain, regardless of job queue demand.


For Desired vCPUs, choose the number of EC2 vCPUs that your compute environment should launch with. As your job queue demand increases, AWS Batch can increase the desired number of vCPUs in your compute environment and add EC2 instances, up to the maximum vCPUs. As demand decreases, AWS Batch can decrease the desired number of vCPUs in your compute environment and remove instances, down to the minimum vCPUs.


For Maximum vCPUs, choose the maximum number of EC2 vCPUs that your compute environment can scale out to, regardless of job queue demand.


(Optional) Check Enable user-specified AMI ID to use your own custom AMI. By default, AWS Batch managed compute environments use a recent, approved version of the Amazon ECS-optimized AMI for compute resources. You can create and use your own AMI in your compute environment by following the compute resource AMI specification. For more information, see Compute Resource AMIs.
Note
The AMI that you choose for a compute environment must match the architecture of the instance types that you intend to use for that compute environment. For example, if your compute environment uses A1 instance types, the compute resource AMI that you choose must support ARM instances. Amazon ECS vends both x86 and ARM versions of the Amazon ECS-optimized Amazon Linux 2 AMI. For more information, see Amazon ECS-optimized Amazon Linux 2 AMI in the Amazon Elastic Container Service Developer Guide.

For AMI ID, paste your custom AMI ID and choose Validate AMI.



Configure networking.
Important
Compute resources need access to communicate with the Amazon ECS service endpoint. This can be through an interface VPC endpoint or through your compute resources having public IP addresses.
For more information about interface VPC endpoints, see Amazon ECS Interface VPC Endpoints (AWS PrivateLink) in the Amazon Elastic Container Service Developer Guide.
If you do not have an interface VPC endpoint configured and your compute resources do not have public IP addresses, then they must use network address translation (NAT) to provide this access. For more information, see NAT Gateways in the Amazon VPC User Guide. For more information, see Tutorial: Creating a VPC with Public and Private Subnets for Your Compute Environments.


For VPC ID, choose a VPC into which to launch your instances.


For Subnets, choose which subnets in the selected VPC should host your instances. By default, all subnets within the selected VPC are chosen.


For Security groups, choose a security group to attach to your instances. By default, the default security group for your VPC is chosen.


(Optional) Tag your instances. For example, you can specify "Name": "AWS Batch Instance - C4OnDemand" as a tag so that each instance in your compute environment has that name. This is helpful for recognizing your AWS Batch instances in the Amazon EC2 console.


Choose Create to finish.


To create an unmanaged compute environment


Open the AWS Batch console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/batch/.


From the navigation bar, select the region to use.


In the navigation pane, choose Compute environments, Create environment.


For Compute environment type, choose Unmanaged.


For Compute environment name, specify a unique name for your compute environment. You can use up to 128 letters (uppercase and lowercase), numbers, hyphens, and underscores.


For Service role, choose to create a new role or use an existing role that allows the AWS Batch service to make calls to the required AWS APIs on your behalf. For more information, see AWS Batch Service IAM Role. If you choose to create a new role, the required role (AWSBatchServiceRole) is created for you.


Ensure that Enable compute environment is selected so that your compute environment can accept jobs from the AWS Batch job scheduler.


Choose Create to finish.


(Optional) Retrieve the Amazon ECS cluster ARN for the associated cluster. The following AWS CLI command provides the Amazon ECS cluster ARN for a compute environment:


aws batch describe-compute-environments --compute-environments unmanagedCE --query computeEnvironments[].ecsClusterArn

(Optional) Launch container instances into the associated Amazon ECS cluster. For more information, see Launching an Amazon ECS Container Instance in the Amazon Elastic Container Service Developer Guide. When you launch your compute resources, specify the Amazon ECS cluster ARN that the resources should register with the following Amazon EC2 user data. Replace ecsClusterArn with the cluster ARN you obtained with the previous command.

#!/bin/bash
   echo "ECS_CLUSTER=ecsClusterArn" >> /etc/ecs/ecs.config
Note
Your unmanaged compute environment does not have any compute resources until you launch them manually.