Bitbucket pull request and webhook filter sample for CodeBuild
AWS CodeBuild supports webhooks when the source repository is Bitbucket. This means that for a CodeBuild build project that has its source code stored in a Bitbucket repository, webhooks can be used to rebuild the source code every time a code change is pushed to the repository. For more information, see Bitbucket webhook events. 
This sample shows you how to create a pull request using a Bitbucket repository. It also shows you how to use a Bitbucket webhook to trigger CodeBuild to create a build of a project.
Topics
 Prerequisites
 Create a build project with Bitbucket as the source repository and enable webhooks
 Trigger a build with a Bitbucket webhook
Prerequisites
To run this sample you must connect your AWS CodeBuild project with your Bitbucket account. 
Note
 CodeBuild has updated its permissions with Bitbucket. If you previously connected your project to Bitbucket and now receive a Bitbucket connection error, you must reconnect to grant CodeBuild permission to manage your webhooks. 
Create a build project with Bitbucket as the source repository and enable webhooks
The following steps describe how to create an AWS CodeBuild project with Bitbucket as a source repository and enable webhooks. 


Open the AWS CodeBuild console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/codesuite/codebuild/home.


If a CodeBuild information page is displayed, choose Create build project. Otherwise, on the navigation pane, expand Build, choose Build projects, and then choose Create build project. 


In Project name, enter a name for this build project. Build project names must be unique across each AWS account. You can also include an optional description of the build project to help other users understand what this project is used for.


In Source, for Source provider, choose Bitbucket. 

Follow the instructions to connect or reconnect, and then choose Grant access. 
Note
CodeBuild does not support Bitbucket Server.



Choose Use a repository in my account. You cannot use a webhook if you use a public Bitbucket repository. 


In Primary source webhook events, select Rebuild every time a code change is pushed to this repository. You can select this check box only if you chose Repository in my Bitbucket account.
Note
 If a build is triggered by a Bitbucket webhook, the Report build status setting is ignored. The build status is always sent to Bitbucket. 



Choose other settings for your project. For more information about source provider options and settings, see Choose source provider. 


Choose Create build project. On the Review page, choose Start build to run the build.


Trigger a build with a Bitbucket webhook
For a project that uses Bitbucket webhooks, AWS CodeBuild creates a build when the Bitbucket repository detects a change in your source code. 


Open the AWS CodeBuild console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/codesuite/codebuild/home.


On the navigation pane, choose Build projects, and then choose a project associated with a Bitbucket repository with webhooks. For information about creating a Bitbucket webhook project, see Create a build project with Bitbucket as the source repository and enable webhooks. 


Make some changes in the code in your project's Bitbucket repository. 


Create a pull request on your Bitbucket repository. For more information, see Making a pull request. 


On the Bitbucket webhooks page, choose View request to see a list of recent events. 


Choose View details to see details about the response returned by CodeBuild. It might look something like this: 


"response":"Webhook received and buld started: https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/codebuild/home..."
   "statusCode":200

Navigate to the Bitbucket pull request page to see the status of the build. 
