Setting Up Amazon Personalize
Before using Amazon Personalize, you must have an Amazon Web Services (AWS) account. After you have an AWS account, you can access Amazon Personalize through the Amazon Personalize console, the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI), or the AWS SDKs.
This guide includes examples for AWS CLI, Python, and JavaScript with AWS Amplify.
Topics
 Sign Up for AWS
 Regions and Endpoints
 Setting Up Permissions
 Setting Up the AWS CLI
 Setting Up the AWS SDKs
Sign Up for AWS
When you sign up for Amazon Web Services (AWS), your account is automatically signed up for all services in AWS, including Amazon Personalize. You are charged only for the services that you use.
If you have an AWS account already, skip to the next task. If you don't have an AWS account, use the following procedure to create one.
To sign up for AWS


Open https://aws.amazon.com, and then choose Create an AWS Account.


Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the account creation. Note your 12-digit AWS account number. Part of the sign-up procedure involves receiving a phone call and entering a PIN using the phone keypad.


Create an AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) admin user. See Creating Your First IAM User and Group in the AWS Identity and Access Management User Guide for instructions.


An IAM user with administrator permissions has unrestricted access to the AWS services in your account. For information about restricting access to Amazon Personalize operations, see Amazon Personalize Identity-Based Policies

Create an IAM user for use with Amazon Personalize. The account requires certain permissions. For more information, see Setting Up Permissions.

Regions and Endpoints
An endpoint is a URL that is the entry point for a web service. Each endpoint is associated with a specific AWS region. Pay attention to the default regions of the Amazon Personalize console, the AWS CLI, and the Amazon Personalize SDKs, as all Amazon Personalize components of a given campaign (dataset, solution, campaign, event tracker) must be created in the same region. For the regions and endpoints supported by Amazon Personalize, see Regions and Endpoints.