Painting Pavement, Grass, Dirt, and Rocks
You now use the terrain texture layers that you created to paint those assigned materials onto your terrain. To do this, use the Layer Painter in the Terrain Tool. After setting a color for a texture, you use that texture to paint your terrain.
To paint your terrain


In the Lumberyard Editor main menu, choose Tools, Terrain Tool.


In the Terrain Tool, choose Layer Painter.



At the bottom of the panel is the list of the terrain texture layers that you created. The texture layers contain the texture and the material of the paint, but not the color.


To define the color, click Grass (1), and then click in the colored part of the Color box (2). Select one of the green colors (3), and then click OK.
Click Save Layer (4) to save this color to the Grass layer.
Click Flood (5) to paint the entire landscape with the grass color and texture.



Now you can paint inside the maze pathways with a hexagon patterned pavement.

Select the HexGround layer. Click in the colored part of the Color box. In the Select Color dialog box, set the color to the following values and then click OK:
    Red: 75
    Green: 79
    Blue: 58



To save the color to the layer, click Save Layer.



In the Layer Painter tool's Brush Settings, set the Radius to 2.50 and the Detail Intensity to 0.50.



Modify the brush radius (size) to suit the level of detail you want.
The detail intensity settings control the brush edge's softness. A value of 0.1 create a soft edge, while a value of 1 creates a hard, solid edge.


In the viewport, inside the maze, drag to paint the HexGround texture into the maze. Leave a bit of grass showing around the inside edges.
Your maze should look similar to the following image. 



Now you set the colors for the other texture layers.


For the Dirt layer, do the following:
    Set the color to Red: 140, Green: 113, and Blue: 87. 
    Click Save Layer to save the color settings.
For the Rocks layer, do the following:
    Set the color to Red: 126, Green: 115, and Blue: 102.
    Click Save Layer to save the color settings.

Paint the maze pathways with the dirt and rock layers, adjusting the radius and detail intensity as necessary.

When finished, your maze should look similar to the following image.


Press CtrlS to save your level.

Next: Drawing a Road