Getting started using the console
Run the following steps to get started with CodeArtifact using the AWS Management Console. 


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the AWS CodeArtifact console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/codesuite/codeartifact/start. For more information, see Setting up with AWS CodeArtifact.


Choose Create repository. 


In Repository name, enter my-repo. 


(Optional) In Description, enter an optional description for your repository. 


Select npm-store to create a repository connected to npmjs that is upstream from your my-repo repository. 


CodeArtifact assigns the name npm-store to this repository for you. All packages available in the upstream repository npm-store are also available to its downstream repository, my-repo. 


Choose Next. 


In AWS account, choose This AWS account.


In Domain name, enter my-domain. 


Expand Additional configuration. 


You must use a customer master key (CMK) to encrypt all assets in your domain. You can use an AWS managed CMK or a CMK that you manage: 
     Choose AWS managed key if you want to use the default AWS managed CMK. 
     Choose Customer managed key if you want to use a CMK that you manage. If you use a CMK that you manage, in Customer master key, choose the CMK. 
For more information, see AWS managed CMKs and Customer managed CMKs in the AWS Key Management Service Developer Guide. 


Choose Next. 


In Review and create, review what CodeArtifact is creating for you. 
     Package flow shows how my-domain, my-repo, and npm-store are related. 
     Step 1: Create repository shows details about my-repository and npm-store. 
     Step 2: Select domain shows details about my-domain. 
When you're ready, choose Create repository. 


On the my-repo page, choose View connection instructions, and then choose npm. 


Use the AWS CLI to run the login command shown under Configure your npm client using this AWS CLI CodeArtifact command.


aws codeartifact login --tool npm --repository my-repo --domain my-domain --domain-owner your-AWS-account-ID

Use the npm CLI to install an npm library. For example, install a library listed in https://www.npmjs.com/ as follows. 
Note
lodash is a popular package to use.

npm install library-name


Return to the CodeArtifact console. If your my-repo repository is open, refresh the page. Otherwise, in the navigation pane, choose Repositories, and then choose my-repo. 
Under Packages, you should see the npm library, or package, that you installed. You can choose the name of the package to view its version and status. You can choose its latest version to view package details such as dependencies, files, and more. 
Note
 There may be a delay between when you install the package and when it is ingested into your repository. 


To avoid further AWS charges, delete the resources that you used during this tutorial: 


From the navigation pane, choose Repositories. 


Choose npm-store, choose Delete, and then follow the steps to delete the repository. 


Choose my-repo, choose Delete, and then follow the steps to delete the repository. 


From the navigation pane, choose Domains. 


Choose my-domain, choose Delete, and then follow the steps to delete the domain. 
Note
 You cannot delete a domain that contains repositories, so you must delete my-repo and npm-store before you delete my-domain. 

