npm command support
The following sections summarize the npm commands that are supported, by CodeArtifact repositories, in addition to specific commands that are not supported.
Topics
 Supported commands that interact with a repository
 Supported client-side commands
 Unsupported commands
Supported commands that interact with a repository
This section lists npm commands where the npm client makes one or more requests to the registry it's been configured with (for example, with npm config set registry ). These commands have been verified to function correctly when invoked against an CodeArtifact repository.




Command
Description




bugs
Tries to guess the location of a package’s bug tracker URL, and then tries to open it.


ci
Installs a project with a clean slate.


deprecate
Deprecates a version of a package.


dist-tag
Modifies package distribution tags.


docs
Tries to guess the location of a package’s documentation URL, and then tries to open it using the --browser config parameter.


doctor
Runs a set of checks to ensure that your npm installation has what it needs to manage your JavaScript packages.


install
Installs a package.


install-ci-test
Installs a project with a clean slate and runs tests. Alias: npm cit. This command runs an npm ci followed immediately by an npm test.


install-test
Installs package and runs tests. Runs an npm install followed immediately by an npm test.


outdated
Checks the configured registry to see if any installed packages are currently outdated.


ping
Pings the configured or given npm registry and verifies authentication.


publish
Publishes a package version to the registry.


update
Guesses the location of a package’s repository URL, and then tries to open it using the --browser config parameter.


view
Displays package metadata. Can be used to print metadata properties.



Supported client-side commands
These commands don't require any direct interaction with a repository, so CodeArtifact does not need to do anything to support them.




Command
Description




bin
Displays the npm bin folder.


build
Builds a package.


cache
Manipulates the packages cache.


completion
Enables tab completion in all npm commands.


config
Updates the contents of the user and global npmrc files.


dedupe
Searches the local package tree and attempts to simplify the structure by moving dependencies further up the tree, where they can be more effectively shared by multiple dependent packages.


edit
Edits an installed package. Selects a dependency in the current working directory and opens the package folder in the default editor.


explore
Browses an installed package. Spawns a subshell in the directory of the installed package specified. If a command is specified, then it is run in the subshell, which then immediately terminates.


help
Gets help on npm.


help-search
Searches npm help documentation.


init
Interactively creates a package.json file.


link
Symlink a package folder.


ls
Lists installed packages.


pack
Creates a tarball from a package.


prefix
Displays prefix. This is the closest parent directory to contain a package.json file unless -g is also specified.


prune
Removes packages that are not listed on the parent package's dependencies list.


rebuild
Runs the npm build command on the matched folders.


restart
Runs a package's stop, restart, and start scripts and associated pre- and post- scripts.


root
Prints the effective node_modules folder to standard out.


run-script
Runs arbitrary package scripts.


shrinkwrap
Locks down dependency versions for publication.


uninstall
Uninstalls a package.



Unsupported commands
These npm commands are not supported by CodeArtifact repositories.




Command
Description
Notes




access
Sets the access level on published packages.
CodeArtifact uses a permission model that is different from the public npmjs repository.


adduser
Adds a registry user account
CodeArtifact uses a user model that is different from the public npmjs repository.


audit
Runs a security audit.
CodeArtifact does not currently vend security vulnerability data.


hook
Allows you to manage npm hooks, including adding, removing, listing, and updating.
CodeArtifact does not currently support any kind of change notification mechanism.


login
Authenticates a user. This is an alias for npm adduser.
CodeArtifact uses an authentication model that is different from the public npmjs repository. For information, see Authentication with npm.


logout
Signs out of the registry.
CodeArtifact uses an authentication model that is different from the public npmjs repository. There is no way to sign out from an CodeArtifact repository, but authentication tokens expire after their configurable expiration time. The default token duration is 12 hours.


owner
Manages package owners.
CodeArtifact uses a permissions model that is different from the public npmjs repository.


profile
Changes settings on your registry profile.
CodeArtifact uses a user model that is different from the public npmjs repository.


search
Searches the registry for packages matching the search terms.
CodeArtifact supports limited search functionality with the list-packages command.


star
Marks your favorite packages.
CodeArtifact currently does not support any kind of favorites mechanism.


stars
View packages marked as favorites.
CodeArtifact currently does not support any kind of favorites mechanism.


team
Manages organization teams and team memberships.
CodeArtifact uses a user and group membership model that is different from the public npmjs repository. For information, see Identities (Users, Groups, and Roles) in the IAM User Guide.


token
Manages your authentication tokens.
CodeArtifact uses a different model for getting authentication tokens. For information, see Authentication with npm.


unpublish
Removes a package from the registry.
CodeArtifact does not support removing a package version from a repository using the npm client. You can use the delete-package-version command.


whoami
Displays the npm user name.
CodeArtifact uses a user model that is different from the public npmjs repository.


