What is the AWS Encryption SDK?
The AWS Encryption SDK is a client-side encryption library designed to make it easy for everyone to encrypt and decrypt data using industry standards and best practices. It enables you to focus on the core functionality of your application, rather than on how to best encrypt and decrypt your data. The AWS Encryption SDK is provided free of charge under the Apache 2.0 license.
The AWS Encryption SDK answers questions like the following for you:
 Which encryption algorithm should I use?
 How, or in which mode, should I use that algorithm?
 How do I generate the encryption key?
 How do I protect the encryption key, and where should I store it?
 How can I make my encrypted data portable?
 How do I ensure that the intended recipient can read my encrypted data?
 How can I ensure my encrypted data is not modified between the time it is written and when it is read?
With the AWS Encryption SDK, you define a master key provider (Java or Python) or a keyring (C or JavaScript) that determines which master keys you use to protect your data. Then you encrypt and decrypt your data using straightforward methods provided by the AWS Encryption SDK. The AWS Encryption SDK does the rest.
Without the AWS Encryption SDK, you might spend more effort on building an encryption solution than on the core functionality of your application. The AWS Encryption SDK answers these questions by providing the following things.
A default implementation that adheres to cryptography best practices
By default, the AWS Encryption SDK generates a unique data key for each data object that it encrypts. This follows the cryptography best practice of using unique data keys for each encryption operation.
The AWS Encryption SDK encrypts your data using a secure, authenticated, symmetric key algorithm. For more information, see Supported algorithm suites in the AWS Encryption SDK.
A framework for protecting data keys with master keys
The AWS Encryption SDK protects the data keys that encrypt your data by encrypting them under one or more master keys. By providing a framework to encrypt data keys with more than one master key, the AWS Encryption SDK helps make your encrypted data portable. 
For example, you can encrypt data under multiple AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) customer master keys (CMKs), each in a different AWS Region. Then you can copy the encrypted data to any of the regions and use the CMK in that region to decrypt it. You can also encrypt data under a CMK in AWS KMS and a master key in an on-premises HSM, enabling you to later decrypt the data even if one of the options is unavailable.
A formatted message that stores encrypted data keys with the encrypted data
The AWS Encryption SDK stores the encrypted data and encrypted data key together in an encrypted message that uses a defined data format. This means you don't need to keep track of or protect the data keys that encrypt your data because the AWS Encryption SDK does it for you.
Some language implementations of the AWS Encryption SDK require an AWS SDK, but the AWS Encryption SDK doesn't require an AWS account and it doesn't depend on any AWS service. You need an AWS account only if you choose to use AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) customer master keys to protect your data.
Compatibility with encryption libraries and services
The AWS Encryption SDK is supported in several programming languages. All language implementations are interoperable. You can encrypt with one language implementation and decrypt with another. Interoperability might be subject to language constraints. If so, these constraints are described in the topic about the language implementation. Also, when encrypting and decrypting, you must use compatible keyrings, or master keys and master key providers. For details, see Keyring compatibility.
However, the AWS Encryption SDK cannot interoperate with other libraries. Because each library returns encrypted data in a different format, you cannot encrypt with one library and decrypt with another.
DynamoDB Encryption Client and Amazon S3 client-side encryption 
The AWS Encryption SDK cannot decrypt data encrypted by the DynamoDB Encryption Client or Amazon S3 client-side encryption. And these libraries cannot decrypt the encrypted message the AWS Encryption SDK returns. 
AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) 
The AWS Encryption SDK can use AWS KMS customer master keys (CMKs) and data keys to protect your data. For example, you can configure the AWS Encryption SDK to encrypt your data under one or more CMKs in your AWS account. However, you must use the AWS Encryption SDK to decrypt that data. 
The AWS Encryption SDK cannot decrypt the ciphertext that the AWS KMS Encrypt or ReEncrypt operations return. Similarly, the AWS KMS Decrypt operation cannot decrypt the encrypted message the AWS Encryption SDK returns.
The AWS Encryption SDK supports only symmetric CMKs. You cannot use an asymmetric CMK for encryption or signing in the AWS Encryption SDK. The AWS Encryption SDK generates its own ECDSA signing keys for algorithm suites that sign messages.
For help deciding which library or service to use, see How to Choose an Encryption Tool or Service in AWS Cryptographic Services and Tools.
Learning more
For more information about the AWS Encryption SDK and client-side encryption, try these sources.
 To get started quickly, see Getting started.
 For information about how this SDK works, see How the SDK works.
 For help with the terms and concepts used in this SDK, see Concepts in the AWS Encryption SDK.
 For detailed technical information, see the AWS Encryption SDK reference.
 For the technical specification for the AWS Encryption SDK, see the aws-encryption-sdk-specification repository in GitHub.
 For answers to your questions about using the AWS Encryption SDK, read and post on the AWS Crypto Tools Discussion Forum.
For information about implementations of the AWS Encryption SDK in different programming languages.
 C: See AWS Encryption SDK for C, the AWS Encryption SDK C documentation, and the aws-encryption-sdk-c repository on GitHub.
 Command Line Interface: See AWS Encryption SDK command line interface, Read the Docs for the AWS Encryption CLI, and the aws-encryption-sdk-cli repository on GitHub.
 Java: See AWS Encryption SDK for Java, the AWS Encryption SDK Javadoc, and the aws-encryption-sdk-java repository on GitHub.
 Python: See AWS Encryption SDK for Python, the AWS Encryption SDK Python documentation, and the aws-encryption-sdk-python repository on GitHub.
 JavaScript: See AWS Encryption SDK for JavaScript and the aws-encryption-sdk-javascript repository on GitHub. 
Sending feedback
We welcome your feedback! If you have a question or comment, or an issue to report, please use the following resources.
 If you discover a potential security vulnerability in the AWS Encryption SDK, please notify AWS security. Do not create a public GitHub issue.
 To provide feedback on the AWS Encryption SDK, file an issue in the GitHub repository for the programming language you are using. 
 To provide feedback on this documentation, use the Feedback link on this page. You can also file an issue or contribute to aws-encryption-sdk-docs, the open-source repository for this documentation on GitHub.