AWS Encryption SDK for Java
This topic explains how to install and use the AWS Encryption SDK for Java. For details about programming with the AWS Encryption SDK for Java, see the aws-encryption-sdk-java repository on GitHub. For API documentation, see the Javadoc for the AWS Encryption SDK for Java.
Topics
 Prerequisites
 Installation
 Example code
Prerequisites
Before you install the AWS Encryption SDK for Java, be sure you have the following prerequisites.
A Java development environment
You will need Java 8 or later. On the Oracle website, go to Java SE Downloads, and then download and install the Java SE Development Kit (JDK).
If you use the Oracle JDK, you must also download and install the Java Cryptography Extension (JCE) Unlimited Strength Jurisdiction Policy Files.
Bouncy Castle
The AWS Encryption SDK for Java requires Bouncy Castle. 
 AWS Encryption SDK for Java versions 1.6.1 and later use Bouncy Castle to serialize and deserialize cryptographic objects. You can use Bouncy Castle or Bouncy Castle FIPS to satisfy this requirement. For help installing and configuring Bouncy Castle FIPS, see BC FIPS Documentation, especially the User Guides and Security Policy PDFs.
 Earlier versions of the AWS Encryption SDK for Java use Bouncy Castle's cryptography API for Java. This requirement is satisfied only by non-FIPS Bouncy Castle.
If you don't have Bouncy Castle, go to Bouncy Castle latest releases to download the provider file that corresponds to your JDK. You can also use Apache Maven to get the artifact for the standard Bouncy Castle provider (bcprov-ext-jdk15on) or the artifact for Bouncy Castle FIPS (bc-fips).
AWS SDK for Java (Optional)
The AWS Encryption SDK for Java doesn't require the AWS SDK for Java. However, AWS SDK for Java version 1.11 is required to use AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) as a master key provider. It's also required for some of the example Java code in this guide.
To install the AWS SDK for Java, use Apache Maven. To import the entire AWS SDK for Java as a dependency, declare it in your pom.xml file. To create a dependency only for the AWS KMS module, follow the instructions for specifying particular modules, and set the artifactId to aws-java-sdk-kms.
Installation
You can install the AWS Encryption SDK for Java in the following ways.
Manually
To install the AWS Encryption SDK for Java, clone or download the aws-encryption-sdk-java GitHub repository.
Using Apache Maven
The AWS Encryption SDK for Java is available through Apache Maven with the following dependency definition.  
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.amazonaws</groupId>
  <artifactId>aws-encryption-sdk-java</artifactId>
  <version>1.6.1</version>
</dependency>
After you install the SDK, get started by looking at the example Java code in this guide and the Javadoc on GitHub.