Document History
The following table describes significant changes to this documentation since January 2018. In addition to major changes listed here, we also update the documentation frequently to improve the descriptions and examples, and to address the feedback that you send to us. To be notified about significant changes, use the link in the upper right corner to subscribe to the RSS feed.



Change
Description
Date




New and updated Java implementation examples
See Using the ACM Private CA API (Java Examples).
September 9, 2020


New region support
Endpoints added for Africa (Cape Town) and Europe (Milan). For a complete list of ACM PCA endpoints, see AWS Certificate Manager Private Certificate Authority Endpoints and Quotas.
August 27, 2020


Cross-account private CA access supported
AWS Certificate Manager users can be authorized to issue certificates using private CAs that they do not own. For more information, see Cross-Account Access to Private CAs.
August 17, 2020


VPC endpoints (PrivateLink) support
Added support for use of VPC endpoints (AWSPrivateLink) for enhanced network security. For more information, see ACM Private CA VPC Endpoints (AWS PrivateLink).
March 26, 2020


Dedicated security section added
Security documentation for AWS has been consolidated into a dedicated security section. For information about security, see Security in AWS Certificate Manager Private Certificate Authority.
March 26, 2020


Template ARN added to audit reports.
For more information, see Creating an Audit Report for Your Private CA.
March 6, 2020


CloudFormation support
Support added for AWS CloudFormation. For more information, see ACMPCA Resource Type Reference in the AWS CloudFormation User Guide.
January 22, 2020


CloudWatch Events integration
Integration with CloudWatch Events for asynchronous events, including CA creation, certificate issuance, and CRL creation. For more information, see Using CloudWatch Events.
December 23, 2019


FIPS endpoints
FIPS endpoints added for AWS GovCloud (US-East) and AWS GovCloud (US-West). For a complete list of ACM PCA endpoints, see AWS Certificate Manager Private Certificate Authority Endpoints and Quotas.
December 13, 2019


Tag-based permissions
Tag-based permissions supported using the new APIs TagResource, UntagResource, and ListTagsForResource. For general information about tag-based controls, see Controlling Access to and for IAM Users and Roles Using IAM Resource Tags.
November 5, 2019


Name constraints enforcement
Added support for enforcing subject name constraints on imported CA certificates. For more information, see Enforcing Name Constraints on a Private CA.
October 28, 2019


New certificate templates
New certificate templates added, including templates for code signing with AWS Signer. For more information, see Using Templates.
October 1, 2019


Planning your CA
New section added on planning your PKI using ACM PCA. For more information, see Planning Your ACM Private CA Deployment.
September 30, 2019


Added region support
Added region support for the AWS Asia Pacific (Hong Kong) Region. For a complete list of supported regions, see AWS Certificate Manager Private Certificate Authority Endpoints and Quotas.
July 24, 2019


Added complete private CA hierarchy support
Support for creating and hosting root CAs removes need for an external parent.
June 20, 2019


Added region support
Added region support for the AWS GovCloud (US-West and US-East) Regions. For a complete list of supported regions, see AWS Certificate Manager Private Certificate Authority Endpoints and Quotas.
May 8, 2019


Added region support
Added region support for the AWS Asia Pacific (Mumbai and Seoul), US West (N. California), and EU (Paris and Stockholm) Regions. For a complete list of supported regions, see AWS Certificate Manager Private Certificate Authority Endpoints and Quotas.
April 4, 2019


Testing certificate renewal workflow
Customers can now manually test the configuration of their ACM managed renewal workflow. For more information, see Testing ACM's Managed Renewal Configuration.
March 14, 2019


Added region support
Added region support for the AWS EU (London) Region. For a complete list of supported regions, see AWS Certificate Manager Private Certificate Authority Endpoints and Quotas.
August 1, 2018


Restore deleted CAs
Private CA restore allows customers to restore certificate authorities (CAs) for up to 30 days after they have been deleted. For more information, see Restoring Your Private CA.
June 20, 2018



Earlier Updates
The following table describes the documentation release history of AWS Certificate Manager Private Certificate Authority before June 2018.




Change
Description
Date




New guide
This release introduces AWS Certificate Manager Private Certificate Authority.
April 04, 2018


