AWS CodeCommit command line reference
This reference helps you learn how to use the AWS CLI.
To install and configure the AWS CLI


On your local machine, download and install the AWS CLI. This is a prerequisite for interacting with CodeCommit from the command line. For more information, see Getting Set Up with the AWS Command Line Interface.
Note
CodeCommit works only with AWS CLI versions 1.7.38 and later. As a best practice, install or upgrade the AWS CLI to the latest version available. To determine which version of the AWS CLI you have installed, run the aws --version command.
To upgrade an older version of the AWS CLI to the latest version, see Installing the AWS Command Line Interface.


Run this command to verify the CodeCommit commands for the AWS CLI are installed:


aws codecommit help
This command should return a list of CodeCommit commands.

Configure the AWS CLI with a profile by using the configure command, as follows:

aws configure
When prompted, specify the AWS access key and AWS secret access key of the IAM user to use with CodeCommit. Also, be sure to specify the AWS Region where the repository exists, such as us-east-2. When prompted for the default output format, specify json. For example:
AWS Access Key ID [None]: Type your target AWS access key ID here, and then press Enter
   AWS Secret Access Key [None]: Type your target AWS secret access key here, and then press Enter
   Default region name [None]: Type a supported region for CodeCommit here, and then press Enter
   Default output format [None]: Type json here, and then press Enter
For more information about creating and configuring profiles to use with the AWS CLI, see the following:
    Named Profiles
    Using an IAM Role in the AWS CLI
    Set command
    Connecting to AWS CodeCommit repositories with rotating credentials
To connect to a repository or a resource in another AWS Region, you must reconfigure the AWS CLI with the default Region name. Supported default Region names for CodeCommit include:
    us-east-2
    us-east-1
    eu-west-1
    us-west-2
    ap-northeast-1
    ap-southeast-1
    ap-southeast-2
    eu-central-1
    ap-northeast-2
    sa-east-1
    us-west-1
    eu-west-2
    ap-south-1
    ca-central-1
    us-gov-west-1
    us-gov-east-1
    eu-north-1
    ap-east-1
    me-south-1
    cn-north-1
    cn-northwest-1
For more information about CodeCommit and AWS Regions, see Regions and Git connection endpoints. For more information about IAM, access keys, and secret keys, see How Do I Get Credentials? and Managing Access Keys for IAM Users. For more information about the AWS CLI and profiles, see Named Profiles.
To view a list of all available CodeCommit commands, run the following command:
aws codecommit help
To view information about a CodeCommit command, run the following command, where command-name is the name of the command (for example, create-repository):
aws codecommit command-name help
See the following for descriptions and example usage of the commands in the AWS CLI:
 associate-approval-rule-template-with-repository
 batch-associate-approval-rule-template-with-repositories
 batch-disassociate-approval-rule-template-from-repositories
 batch-describe-merge-conflicts
 batch-get-commits
 batch-get-repositories
 create-approval-rule-template
 create-branch
 create-commit
 create-pull-request
 create-pull-request-approval-rule
 create-repository
 create-unreferenced-merge-commit
 delete-approval-rule-template
 delete-branch
 delete-comment-content
 delete-file
 delete-repository
 describe-merge-conflicts
 delete-pull-request-approval-rule
 describe-pull-request-events
 disassociate-pull-request-approval-rule-template-from-repository
 evaluate-pull-request-approval-rules
 get-approval-rule-template
 get-blob
 get-branch
 get-comment
 get-comment-reactions
 get-comments-for-compared-commit
 get-comments-for-pull-request
 get-commit
 get-differences
 get-merge-commit
 get-merge-conflicts
 get-merge-options
 get-pull-request
 get-pull-request-approval-states
 get-pull-request-override-state
 get-repository
 get-repository-triggers
 list-approval-rule-templates
 list-associated-approval-rule-templates-for-repository
 list-branches
 list-pull-requests
 list-repositories
 list-repositories-for-approval-rule-template
 list-tags-for-resource
 merge-branches-by-fast-forward
 merge-branches-by-squash
 merge-branches-by-three-way
 merge-pull-request-by-fast-forward
 merge-pull-request-by-squash
 merge-pull-request-by-three-way
 override-pull-request-approval-rules
 post-comment-for-compared-commit
 post-comment-for-pull-request
 post-comment-reply
 put-comment-reaction
 put-file
 put-repository-triggers
 tag-resource
 test-repository-triggers
 untag-resource
 update-approval-rule-template-content
 update-approval-rule-template-description
 update-approval-rule-template-name
 update-comment
 update-default-branch
 update-pull-request-approval-rule-content
 update-pull-request-approval-state
 update-pull-request-description
 update-pull-request-status
 update-pull-request-title
 update-repository-description
 update-repository-name