How Amazon Personalize Works with IAM
Before you use IAM to manage access to Amazon Personalize, you should understand what IAM features are available to use with Amazon Personalize. To get a high-level view of how Amazon Personalize and other AWS services work with IAM, see AWS Services That Work with IAM in the IAM User Guide.
Topics
 Amazon Personalize Identity-Based Policies
 Amazon Personalize Resource-Based Policies
 Authorization Based on Amazon Personalize Tags
 Amazon Personalize IAM Roles
Amazon Personalize Identity-Based Policies
With IAM identity-based policies, you can specify allowed or denied actions and resources as well as the conditions under which actions are allowed or denied. Amazon Personalize supports specific actions, resources, and condition keys. To learn about all of the elements that you use in a JSON policy, see IAM JSON Policy Elements Reference in the IAM User Guide.
Actions
The Action element of an IAM identity-based policy describes the specific action or actions that will be allowed or denied by the policy. Policy actions usually have the same name as the associated AWS API operation. The action is used in a policy to grant permissions to perform the associated operation. 
Policy actions in Amazon Personalize use the following prefix before the action: personalize:. For example, to create a dataset with the Amazon Personalize CreateDataset API operation, you include the personalize:CreateDataset action in the policy. Policy statements must include either an Action or NotAction element. Amazon Personalize defines its own set of actions that describe tasks that you can perform with this service.
To specify multiple actions in a single statement, separate them with commas as shown in the following command.
"Action": [
      "personalize:action1",
      "personalize:action2"
You can specify multiple actions using wildcards (*). For example, to specify all actions that begin with the word Describe, include the following action.
"Action": "personalize:Describe*"
To see a list of Amazon Personalize actions, see Actions Defined by Amazon Personalize in the IAM User Guide.
Resources
The Resource element specifies the object or objects to which the action applies. Statements must include either a Resource or a NotResource element. You specify a resource using an ARN or using the wildcard (*) to indicate that the statement applies to all resources.
An Amazon Personalize dataset resource has the following ARN.
arn:${Partition}:personalize:${Region}:${Account}:dataset/${dataset-name}
For more information about the format of ARNs, see Amazon Resource Names (ARNs) and AWS Service Namespaces.
For example, to specify the MyDataset dataset in your statement, use the following ARN.
"Resource": "arn:aws:personalize:us-east-1:123456789012:dataset/MyDataset"
To specify all datasets that belong to a specific account, use the wildcard (*), as shown in the following example.
"Resource": "arn:aws:personalize:us-east-1:123456789012:dataset/*"
Some Amazon Personalize actions, such as those for creating resources, cannot be performed on a specific resource. In those cases, you must use the wildcard (*).
"Resource": "*"
To see a list of Amazon Personalize resource types and their ARNs, see Resources Defined by Amazon Personalize in the IAM User Guide. To learn about the actions you can use to specify the ARN of each resource, see Actions Defined by Amazon Personalize.
Condition Keys
The Condition element (or Condition block) lets you specify conditions in which a statement is in effect. The Condition element is optional. You can create conditional expressions that use condition operators, such as equals or less than, to match the condition in the policy with values in the request. 
If you specify multiple Condition elements in a statement, or multiple keys in a single Condition element, AWS evaluates them using a logical AND operation. If you specify multiple values for a single condition key, AWS evaluates the condition using a logical OR operation. All of the conditions must be met before the statement's permissions are granted.
You can also use placeholder variables when you specify conditions. For example, you can grant an IAM user permission to access a resource only if it is tagged with their IAM user name. For more information, see IAM Policy Elements: Variables and Tags in the IAM User Guide. 
Examples
To view examples of Amazon Personalize identity-based policies, see Amazon Personalize Identity-Based Policy Examples.
Amazon Personalize Resource-Based Policies
Amazon Personalize does not support resource-based policies.
Authorization Based on Amazon Personalize Tags
Amazon Personalize does not support tagging resources or controlling access based on tags.
Amazon Personalize IAM Roles
An IAM role is an entity within your AWS account that has specific permissions.
Using Temporary Credentials with Amazon Personalize
You can use temporary credentials to sign in with federation, assume an IAM role, or to assume a cross-account role. You obtain temporary security credentials by calling AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) API operations such as AssumeRole or GetFederationToken. 
Amazon Personalize supports using temporary credentials. 
Service-Linked Roles
Service-linked roles allow AWS services to access resources in other services to complete an action on your behalf. Service-linked roles appear in your IAM account and are owned by the service. An IAM administrator can view but not edit the permissions for service-linked roles.
Amazon Personalize does not support service-linked roles.
Service Roles
This feature allows a service to assume a service role on your behalf. This role allows the service to access resources in other services to complete an action on your behalf. Service roles appear in your IAM account and are owned by the account. This means that an IAM administrator can change the permissions for this role. However, doing so might break the functionality of the service.
Amazon Personalize supports service roles.