Getting started with Client VPN
Before you can establish a VPN session, your Client VPN administrator must create and configure a Client VPN endpoint. Your administrator controls which networks and resources you can access when you establish a VPN session. You then use a VPN client application to connect to a Client VPN endpoint and establish a secure VPN connection.
For more information about creating a Client VPN endpoint, see the AWS Client VPN Administrator Guide.
Topics
 Prerequisites
 Step 1: Get a VPN client application
 Step 2: Get the Client VPN endpoint configuration file
 Step 3: Connect to the VPN
Prerequisites
To establish a VPN connection, you must have the following:
 Access to the internet
 A supported device
 For Client VPN endpoints that use SAML-based federated authentication (single sign-on), one of the following browsers:
   Apple Safari
   Google Chrome
   Microsoft Edge
   Mozilla Firefox
Step 1: Get a VPN client application
You can connect to a Client VPN endpoint and establish a VPN connection using the AWS-provided client or another OpenVPN-based client application. 
The AWS-provided client is a supported on Windows and macOS. You can download the client at AWS Client VPN download.
Alternatively, download and install an OpenVPN client application on the device from which you intend to establish the VPN connection.
Step 2: Get the Client VPN endpoint configuration file
You must get the Client VPN endpoint configuration file from your administrator. The configuration file includes the information about the Client VPN endpoint and the certificates required to establish a VPN connection.
Step 3: Connect to the VPN
Import the Client VPN endpoint configuration file to the AWS-provided client or to your OpenVPN client application and connect to the VPN. For steps to connect to a VPN, see the following topics:
 Connect using the AWS-provided client
 Connect using an OpenVPN client
For Client VPN endpoints that use Active Directory authentication, you will be prompted to enter your user name and password. If multi-factor authentication (MFA) has been enabled for the directory, you will also be prompted to enter your MFA code.
For Client VPN endpoints that use SAML-based federated authentication (single sign-on), the AWS-provided client opens a browser window on your computer. You'll be prompted to enter your corporate credentials before you can connect to the Client VPN endpoint.