Using the AWS Blockchain Template for Hyperledger Fabric
Hyperledger Fabric is a blockchain framework that runs smart contracts called chaincode, which are written in Go. You can create a private network with Hyperledger Fabric, limiting the peers that can connect to and participate in the network. For more information about Hyperledger Fabric, see the Hyperledger Fabric documentation. For more information about chaincode, see the Chaincode for Developers topic in the Hyperledger Fabric documentation.
The AWS Blockchain Template for Hyperledger Fabric only supports a docker-local container platform, meaning the Hyperledger Fabric containers are deployed on a single EC2 instance.
Links to Launch
Use the following links to launch AWS CloudFormation in specific regions with the template:
 Launch in US East (N. Virginia) region (us-east-1)
 Launch in US East (Ohio) region (us-east-2)
 Launch in US West (Oregon) region (us-west-2)
Links to Download
Use the following links to download the template:
 Download template (YAML) from US East (N. Virginia) region (us-east-1)
 Download template (YAML) from US East (Ohio) region (us-east-2)
 Download template (YAML) from US West (Oregon) region (us-west-2)
AWS Blockchain Template for Hyperledger Fabric Components
The AWS Blockchain Template for Hyperledger Fabric creates an EC2 instance with Docker, and launches a Hyperledger Fabric network using containers on that instance. The network includes one order service and three organizations, each with one peer service. The template also launches a Hyperledger Explorer container, which allows you to browse blockchain data. A PostgreSQL server container is launched to support Hyperledger Explorer.
The following diagram depicts a Hyperledger Fabric network created using the template:

Prerequisites
Before you launch a Hyperledger Fabric network using template, make sure that the following requirements are satisfied: 
 The IAM principle (user or group) that you use must have permission to work with all related services.
 You must have access to a key pair that you can use to access EC2 instances (for example, using SSH). The key must exist in the same region as the instance.
 You must have an EC2 instance profile with a permissions policy attached that allows access to Amazon S3 and to Amazon Elastic Container Registry (Amazon ECR) to pull containers. For an example permissions policy, see Example IAM Permissions for the EC2 Instance Profile.
 You must have a Amazon VPC network with a public subnet, or a private subnet with a NAT Gateway and Elastic IP address so that Amazon S3, AWS CloudFormation, and Amazon ECR can be accessed.
 You must have an EC2 security group with inbound rules that allow SSH traffic (port 22) from the IP addresses that need to connect to the instance using SSH, and the same for clients that need to connect to Hyperledger Explorer (port 80).
Example IAM Permissions for the EC2 Instance Profile
You specify an EC2 instance profile ARN as one of the parameters when you use the AWS Blockchain Template for Hyperledger Fabric. Use the following policy statement as a starting point for the permissions policy attached to that EC2 role and instance profile.
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "ecr:GetAuthorizationToken",
                "ecr:BatchCheckLayerAvailability",
                "ecr:GetDownloadUrlForLayer",
                "ecr:GetRepositoryPolicy",
                "ecr:DescribeRepositories",
                "ecr:ListImages",
                "ecr:DescribeImages",
                "ecr:BatchGetImage",
                "s3:Get*",
                "s3:List*"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
Connecting to Hyperledger Fabric Resources
After the root stack that you create with the template shows CREATE_COMPLETE, you can connect to Hyperledger Fabric resources on the EC2 instance. If you specified a public subnet, you can connect to the EC2 instance as would any other EC2 instance. For more information, see Connecting to Your Linux Instance Using SSH in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances.
If you specified a private subnet, you can set up and use a bastion host to proxy connections to Hyperledger Fabric resources. For more information, see Proxy Connections Using a Bastion Host below.
Note
You may notice that the template allocates a public IP address to the EC2 instance hosting Hyperledger Fabric services; however, this IP address is not publicly accessible because routing policies in the private subnet you specify do not allow traffic between this IP address and public sources.
Proxy Connections Using a Bastion Host
With some configurations, Hyperledger Fabric services may not be publicly available. In those cases, you can connect to Hyperledger Fabric resources through a bastion host. For more information about bastion hosts, see Linux Bastion Host Architecture in the Linux Bastion Host Quick Start Guide.
The bastion host is an EC2 instance. Make sure that the following requirements are met:
 The EC2 instance for the bastion host is within a public subnet with Auto-assign Public IP enabled and that has an internet gateway. 
 The bastion host has the key pair that allows ssh connections.
 The bastion host is associated with a security group that allows inbound SSH traffic from the clients that connect.
 The security group assigned to the Hyperledger Fabric hosts (for example, the Application Load Balancer if ECS is the container platform, or the host EC2 instance if docker-local is the container platform) allows inbound traffic on all ports from sources within the VPC.
With a bastion host set up, ensure that the clients that connect use the bastion host as a proxy. The following example demonstrates setting up a proxy connection using Mac OS. Replace BastionIP with the IP address of the bastion host EC2 instance and MySshKey.pem with the key pair file that you copied to the bastion host.
On the command line, type the following:
ssh -i mySshKey.pem  ec2-user@BastionIP -D 9001
This sets up port forwarding for port 9001 on the local machine to the bastion host.
Next, configure your browser or system to use SOCKS proxy for localhost:9001. For example, using Mac OS, select System Preferences, Network, Advanced, select SOCKS proxy, and type localhost:9001.
Using FoxyProxy Standard with Chrome, select More Tools, Extensions. Under FoxyProxy Standard, select Details, Extension options, Add New Proxy. Select Manual Proxy Configuration. For Host or IP Address type localhost and for Port type 9001. Select SOCKS proxy?, Save.
You should now be able to connect to the Hyperledger Fabric host addresses listed earlier int his topic.