Additional Amazon DynamoDB Resources
Topics
 Blog Posts, Repositories, and Guides
 Data Modeling and Design Patterns
 Advanced Design Patterns with Rick Houlihan
 Training Courses
 Tools for Coding and Visualization
Blog Posts, Repositories, and Guides

How to switch from RDBMS to DynamoDB in 20 easy steps — An irreverent list from Jeremy Daly of useful steps for learning data modeling.
DynamoDB JavaScript DocumentClient cheat sheet — A cheat sheet to help you get started building applications with DynamoDB in a Node.js or JavaScript environment.
From relational database to single DynamoDB table: A step-by-step exploration — An in-depth post from Forrest Brazeal that includes a step-by-step approach for moving to a DynamoDB-style, one-table design.

Data Modeling and Design Patterns

AWS re:Invent 2019: Data modeling with DynamoDB — A talk by Alex DeBrie that gets you started on the principles of DynamoDB data modeling.

Advanced Design Patterns with Rick Houlihan

AWS re:Invent 2019: Advanced design patterns
Jeremy Daly shares his 12 key takeaways from this session.
AWS re:Invent 2018: Advanced design patterns
AWS re:Invent 2017: Advanced design patterns

Note
Each session covers different use cases and examples.
Training Courses

DynamoDB Deep-Dive Course — A course from Linux Academy with help from the Amazon DynamoDB team.
Amazon DynamoDB: Building NoSQL Database-Driven Applications — A course from the AWS Training and Certification team hosted on edX.
AWS DynamoDB — From Beginner to Pro — A course from A Cloud Guru.

Tools for Coding and Visualization

NoSQL Workbench for Amazon DynamoDB — A unified, visual tool that provides data modeling, data visualization, and query development features to help you design, create, query, and manage DynamoDB tables.
DynamoDB Toolbox — A project from Jeremy Daly that provides helpful utilities for working with data modeling and in JavaScript and Node.js.
Dynobase — A desktop tool that makes it easy to see and work with your DynamoDB tables, create app code, and edit records with real-time validation.
DynamoDB Streams Processor — A simple tool that makes working with DynamoDB Streams super easy.
