Creating a Load Balancer Latency Alarm That Sends Email
You can set up an Amazon SNS notification and configure an alarm that monitors latency exceeding 100 ms for your Classic Load Balancer.
Setting Up a Latency Alarm Using the AWS Management Console
Use these steps to use the AWS Management Console to create a load balancer latency alarm.
To create a load balancer latency alarm that sends email


Open the CloudWatch console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/.


In the navigation pane, choose Alarms, Create Alarm.


Under CloudWatch Metrics by Category, choose the ELB Metrics category.


Select the row with the Classic Load Balancer and the Latency metric.


For the statistic, choose Average, choose one of the predefined percentiles, or specify a custom percentile (for example, p95.45).


For the period, choose 1 Minute.


Choose Next.


Under Alarm Threshold, enter a unique name for the alarm (for example, myHighCpuAlarm) and a description of the alarm (for example, Alarm when Latency exceeds 100s). Alarm names must contain only ASCII characters.


Under Whenever, for is, choose > and enter 0.1. For for, enter 3.


Under Additional settings, for Treat missing data as, choose ignore (maintain alarm state) so that missing data points don't trigger alarm state changes.


For Percentiles with low samples, choose ignore (maintain the alarm state) so that the alarm evaluates only situations with adequate numbers of data samples. 

Under Actions, for Whenever this alarm, choose State is ALARM. For Send notification to, choose an existing SNS topic or create a new one.

To create an SNS topic, choose New list. For Send notification to, enter a name for the SNS topic (for example, myHighCpuAlarm), and for Email list, enter a comma-separated list of email addresses to be notified when the alarm changes to the ALARM state. Each email address is sent a topic subscription confirmation email. You must confirm the subscription before notifications can be sent.

Choose Create Alarm.

Setting Up a Latency Alarm Using the AWS CLI
Use these steps to use the AWS CLI to create a load balancer latency alarm.
To create a load balancer latency alarm that sends email


Set up an SNS topic. For more information, see Setting Up Amazon SNS Notifications.


Create the alarm using the put-metric-alarm command as follows:


1. aws cloudwatch put-metric-alarm --alarm-name lb-mon --alarm-description "Alarm when Latency exceeds 100s" --metric-name Latency --namespace AWS/ELB --statistic Average --period 60 --threshold 100 --comparison-operator GreaterThanThreshold --dimensions Name=LoadBalancerName,Value=my-server --evaluation-periods 3 --alarm-actions arn:aws:sns:us-east-1:111122223333:my-topic --unit Seconds


Test the alarm by forcing an alarm state change using the set-alarm-state command.


Change the alarm state from INSUFFICIENT_DATA to OK.
1. aws cloudwatch set-alarm-state --alarm-name lb-mon --state-reason "initializing" --state-value OK


Change the alarm state from OK to ALARM.
1. aws cloudwatch set-alarm-state --alarm-name lb-mon --state-reason "initializing" --state-value ALARM


Check that you have received an email notification about the alarm.

