Create and attach a policy to an IAM user
To enable a user to call the API managing service or the API execution service, you must create an IAM policy for an IAM user, which controls access to the API Gateway entities, and then attach the policy to the IAM user. The following steps describe how to create your IAM policy.
To create your own IAM policy


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/.


Choose Policies, and then choose Create Policy. If a Get Started button appears, choose it, and then choose Create Policy.


Next to Create Your Own Policy, choose Select.


For Policy Name, type any value that is easy for you to refer to later. Optionally, type descriptive text in Description. 


For Policy Document, type a policy statement with the following format, and then choose Create Policy:


{
     "Version": "2012-10-17",
     "Statement" : [
       {
         "Effect" : "Allow",
         "Action" : [
           "action-statement"
         ],
         "Resource" : [
           "resource-statement"
         ]
       },
       {
         "Effect" : "Allow",
         "Action" : [
           "action-statement"
         ],
         "Resource" : [
           "resource-statement"
         ]
       }
     ]
   }
In this statement, substitute action-statement and resource-statement as needed, and add other statements to specify the API Gateway entities you want to allow the IAM user to manage, the API methods the IAM user can call, or both. By default, the IAM user does not have permissions unless there is an explicit corresponding Allow statement. 


To enable the policy for a user, choose Users.


Choose the IAM user to whom you want to attach the policy.


You have just created an IAM policy. It won't have any effect until you attach it to an IAM user, to an IAM group containing the user, or to an IAM role assumed by the user. 
To attach an IAM policy to an IAM user


For the chosen user, choose the Permissions tab, and then choose Attach Policy.


Under Grant permissions, choose Attach existing policies directly.


Choose the policy document just created from the displayed list and then choose Next: Review.


Under Permissions summary, choose Add permissions.


Alternatively, you can add the user to an IAM group, if the user is not already a member, and attach the policy document to the group so that the attached policies are applicable to all group members. It is helpful to manage and update policy configurations on a group of IAM users. In the following, we highlight how to attach the policy to an IAM group, assuming that you have already created the group and added the user to the group. 
To attach an IAM policy document to an IAM group


Choose Groups from the main navigation pane. 


Choose the Permissions tab under the chosen group. 


Choose Attach policy.


Choose the policy document that you previously created, and then choose Attach policy.


For API Gateway to call other AWS services on your behalf, create an IAM role of the Amazon API Gateway type.
To create an Amazon API Gateway type of role


Choose Roles from the main navigation pane.


Choose Create New Role.


Type a name for Role name and then choose Next Step.


Under Select Role Type, in AWS Service Roles, choose Select next to Amazon API Gateway.


Choose an available managed IAM permissions policy, for example, AmazonAPIGatewayPushToCloudWatchLog if you want API Gateway to log metrics in CloudWatch, under Attach Policy and then choose Next Step.


Under Trusted Entities, verify that apigateway.amazonaws.com is listed as an entry, and then choose Create Role.


In the newly created role, choose the Permissions tab and then choose Attach Policy.


Choose the previously created custom IAM policy document and then choose Attach Policy.

