Create, configure, and test usage plans with the API Gateway console
Before creating a usage plan, make sure that you've set up the desired API keys. For more information, see Set up API keys using the API Gateway console.
This section describes how to create and use a usage plan by using the API Gateway console.
Topics
 Migrate your API to default usage plans (if needed)
 Create a usage plan
 Test a usage plan
 Maintain a usage plan
Migrate your API to default usage plans (if needed)
If you started to use API Gateway after the usage plans feature was rolled out on August 11, 2016, you will automatically have usage plans enabled for you in all supported Regions.
If you started to use API Gateway before that date, you might need to migrate to default usage plans. You'll be prompted with the Enable Usage Plans option before using usage plans for the first time in the selected Region. When you enable this option, you have default usage plans created for every unique API stage that's associated with existing API keys. In the default usage plan, no throttle or quota limits are set initially, and the associations between the API keys and API stages are copied to the usage plans. The API behaves the same as before. However, you must use the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/api-reference/resource/usage-plan/ apiStages property to associate specified API stage values (apiId and stage) with included API keys (via https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/api-reference/resource/usage-plan-key/), instead of using the ApiKey stageKeys property.
To check whether you've already migrated to default usage plans, use the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/apigateway/get-account.html CLI command. In the command output, the features list includes an entry of "UsagePlans" when usage plans are enabled.
You can also migrate your APIs to default usage plans by using the AWS CLI as follows:
To migrate to default usage plans using the AWS CLI


Call this CLI command: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/apigateway/update-account.html.


For the cli-input-json parameter, use the following JSON:


[
       {
           "op": "add",
           "path": "/features",
           "value": "UsagePlans"
       }
   ]
Create a usage plan
The following procedure describes how to create a usage plan.
To create a usage plan


In the Amazon API Gateway main navigation pane, choose Usage Plans, and then choose Create.


Under Create Usage Plan, do the following:


For Name, enter a name for your plan (for example, Plan_A). 


For Description, enter a description for your plan. 


Select Enable throttling, and set Rate (for example, 100) and Burst (for example, 200). 


Choose Enable quota, and set its limit (for example, 5000) for a selected time interval (for example, Month).


Choose Next.



To add a stage to the plan, do the following in the Associated API Stages pane: 


Choose Add API Stage. 


Choose an API (for example, PetStore) from the API drop-down list. 


Choose a stage (for example, Stage_1) from the Stage drop-down list. 


Choose the checkmark icon to save.



To configure method throttling, do the following:


Choose Configure Method Throttling.


Choose Add Resource/Method.


Choose the resource from the Resource drop-down menu.


Choose the method from the Method drop-down menu.


Set Rate (requests per second) (for example, 100) and Burst (for example, 200).


Choose the checkmark icon to save.


Choose Close.


To add a key to the plan, do the following in the API Keys tab:


To use an existing key, choose Add API Key to Usage Plan. 


For Name, enter a name for the key you want to add (for example, MyFirstKey).


Choose the checkmark icon to save.


As needed, repeat the preceding steps to add other existing API keys to this usage plan.

Note
Alternatively, to create a new API key and add it to the usage plan, choose Create API Key and add to Usage Plan and follow the instructions.
Note
An API key can be associated with more than one usage plan. A usage plan can be associated with more than one stage. However, a given API key can only be associated with one usage plan for each stage of your API.


To finish creating the usage plan, choose Done.


If you want to add more API stages to the usage plan, choose Add API Stage to repeat the preceding steps.


Test a usage plan
To test the usage plan, you can use an AWS SDK, AWS CLI, or a REST API client like Postman. For an example of using Postman to test the usage plan, see Test usage plans.
Maintain a usage plan
Maintaining a usage plan involves monitoring the used and remaining quotas over a given time period and, if needed, extending the remaining quotas by a specified amount. The following procedures describe how to monitor and extend quotas.
To monitor used and remaining quotas


In the API Gateway main navigation pane, choose Usage Plans.


Choose a usage plan from the list of usage plans.


From within the specified plan, choose API Keys.


Choose an API key, and then choose Usage to view Subscriber's Traffic from the plan you're monitoring.


Optionally, choose Export, choose a From date and a To date, choose JSON or CSV for the exported data format, and then choose Export.


The following example shows an exported file. 
{
     "thisPeriod": {
       "px1KW6...qBazOJH": [
         [
           0,
           5000
         ],
         [
           0,
           5000
         ],
         [
           0,
           10
         ]
       ]
     },
     "startDate": "2016-08-01",
     "endDate": "2016-08-03"
   }
The usage data in the example shows the daily usage data for an API client, as identified by the API key (px1KW6...qBazOJH), between August 1, 2016 and August 3, 2016. Each daily usage data shows used and remaining quotas. In this example, the subscriber hasn't used any allotted quotas yet, and the API owner or administrator has reduced the remaining quota from 5000 to 10 on the third day.
To extend the remaining quotas


Repeat steps 1–3 of the previous procedure.


In the usage plan pane, choose Extension from the usage plan window.


Enter a number for the Remaining request quotas.


Choose Save.

