Updates to a REST API that require redeployment
Maintaining an API amounts to viewing, updating and deleting the existing API setups. You can maintain an API using the API Gateway console, AWS CLI, an SDK or the API Gateway REST API. Updating an API involves modifying certain resource properties or configuration settings of the API. Resource updates require redeploying the API, whereas configuration updates do not. 
API resources that can be updated are detailed in the following table.
API resource updates requiring redeployment of the API 



Resource
Remarks




ApiKey
For applicable properties and supported operations, see apikey:update. The update requires redeploying the API.


Authorizer
For applicable properties and supported operations, see authorizer:update. The update requires redeploying the API.


DocumentationPart
For applicable properties and supported operations, see documentationpart:update. The update requires redeploying the API.


DocumentationVersion
For applicable properties and supported operations, see documentationversion:update. The update requires redeploying the API.


GatewayResponse
For applicable properties and supported operations, see gatewayresponse:update. The update requires redeploying the API.


Integration
For applicable properties and supported operations, see integration:update. The update requires redeploying the API.


IntegrationResponse
For applicable properties and supported operations, see integrationresponse:update. The update requires redeploying the API.


Method
For applicable properties and supported operations, see method:update. The update requires redeploying the API.


MethodResponse
For applicable properties and supported operations, see methodresponse:update. The update requires redeploying the API.


Model
For applicable properties and supported operations, see model:update. The update requires redeploying the API.


RequestValidator
For applicable properties and supported operations, see requestvalidator:update. The update requires redeploying the API.


Resource
For applicable properties and supported operations, see resource:update. The update requires redeploying the API.


RestApi
For applicable properties and supported operations, see restapi:update. The update requires redeploying the API.


VpcLink
For applicable properties and supported operations, see vpclink:update. The update requires redeploying the API.



API configurations that can be updated are detailed in the following table.
API configuration updates without requiring redeployment of the API 



Configuration
Remarks




Account
For applicable properties and supported operations, see account:update. The update does not require redeploying the API.


Deployment
For applicable properties and supported operations, see deployment:update.


DomainName
For applicable properties and supported operations, see domainname:update. The update does not require redeploying the API.


BasePathMapping
For applicable properties and supported operations, see basepathmapping:update. The update does not require redeploying the API.


Stage
For applicable properties and supported operations, see stage:update. The update does not require redeploying the API.


Usage
For applicable properties and supported operations, see usage:update. The update does not require redeploying the API.


UsagePlan
For applicable properties and supported operations, see usageplan:update. The update does not require redeploying the API.



Topics