How AWS Security Hub works with IAM
Before you use IAM to manage access to Security Hub, you should understand what IAM features are available to use with Security Hub. To get a high-level view of how Security Hub and other AWS services work with IAM, see AWS Services That Work with IAM in the IAM User Guide.
Topics
 Security Hub identity-based policies
 Security Hub resource-based policies (Not supported)
 Authorization based on Security Hub tags
 Security Hub IAM roles
 Service-linked roles
 Service roles
 AWS Security Hub identity-based policy examples
Security Hub identity-based policies
With IAM identity-based policies, you can specify allowed or denied actions and resources as well as the conditions under which actions are allowed or denied. Security Hub supports specific actions, resources, and condition keys. To learn about all of the elements that you use in a JSON policy, see IAM JSON Policy Elements Reference in the IAM User Guide.
Actions
The Action element of an IAM identity-based policy describes the specific action or actions that will be allowed or denied by the policy. Policy actions usually have the same name as the associated AWS API operation. The action is used in a policy to grant permissions to perform the associated operation. 
Policy actions in Security Hub use the following prefix before the action: securityhub:. For example, to grant a user permission to enable Security Hub using the EnableSecurityHub API operation, you include the securityhub:EnableSecurityHub action in the policy assigned to that user. Policy statements must include either an Action or NotAction element. Security Hub defines its own set of actions that describe tasks that you can perform with this service.
To specify multiple actions in a single statement, separate them with commas as follows:
"Action": [
      "securityhub:action1",
      "securityhub:action2"
You can specify multiple actions using wildcards (*). For example, to specify all actions that begin with the word Get, include the following line in your policy:
"Action": "securityhub:Get*"
To see a list of Security Hub actions, see Actions Defined by AWS Security Hub in the IAM User Guide.
Resources
The Resource element specifies the object or objects to which the action applies. Statements must include either a Resource or a NotResource element. You specify a resource using an ARN or using the wildcard (*) to indicate that the statement applies to all resources.
For more information about the format of ARNs, see Amazon Resource Names (ARNs) and AWS Service Namespaces.
To see a list of Security Hub resource types and their ARNs, see Resources Defined by AWS Security Hub in the IAM User Guide. To learn with which actions you can specify the ARN of each resource, see Actions Defined by AWS Security Hub.
Condition keys
The Condition element (or Condition block) lets you specify conditions in which a statement is in effect. The Condition element is optional. You can create conditional expressions that use condition operators, such as equals or less than, to match the condition in the policy with values in the request. 
If you specify multiple Condition elements in a statement, or multiple keys in a single Condition element, AWS evaluates them using a logical AND operation. If you specify multiple values for a single condition key, AWS evaluates the condition using a logical OR operation. All of the conditions must be met before the statement's permissions are granted.
You can also use placeholder variables when you specify conditions. For example, you can grant an IAM user permission to access a resource only if it is tagged with their IAM user name. For more information, see IAM Policy Elements: Variables and Tags in the IAM User Guide. 
Security Hub defines its own set of condition keys and also supports using some global condition keys. To see all AWS global condition keys, see AWS Global Condition Context Keys in the IAM User Guide.
Security Hub actions support the securityhub:TargetAccount condition key.
To control access to https://docs.aws.amazon.com/securityhub/1.0/APIReference/API_BatchUpdateFindings.html, Security Hub supports the securityhub.ASFFSyntaxPath condition key. For details on configuring access to https://docs.aws.amazon.com/securityhub/1.0/APIReference/API_BatchUpdateFindings.html, see Configuring access to BatchUpdateFindings.
To see a list of Security Hub condition keys, see Condition Keys for AWS Security Hub in the IAM User Guide. To learn with which actions and resources you can use a condition key, see Actions Defined by AWS Security Hub.
Security Hub resource-based policies (Not supported)
Security Hub does not support resource-based policies.
Authorization based on Security Hub tags
You can add tags to Security Hub resources or pass tags in a request to Security Hub. To control access based on tags, you provide tag information in the condition element of a policy using the securityhub:ResourceTag/key-name, aws:RequestTag/key-name, or aws:TagKeys condition keys.
Security Hub IAM roles
An IAM role is an entity within your AWS account that has specific permissions.
Using temporary credentials with Security Hub
You can use temporary credentials to sign in with federation, assume an IAM role, or to assume a cross-account role. You obtain temporary security credentials by calling AWS STS API operations such as AssumeRole or GetFederationToken. 
Security Hub supports using temporary credentials. 
Service-linked roles
Service-linked roles allow AWS services to access resources in other services to complete an action on your behalf. Service-linked roles appear in your IAM account and are owned by the service. An IAM administrator can view but not edit the permissions for service-linked roles.
Security Hub supports service-linked roles.
Service roles
This feature allows a service to assume a service role on your behalf. This role allows the service to access resources in other services to complete an action on your behalf. Service roles appear in your IAM account and are owned by the account. This means that an IAM administrator can change the permissions for this role. However, doing so might break the functionality of the service.
Security Hub supports service roles.
AWS Security Hub identity-based policy examples
By default, IAM users and roles don't have permission to create or modify Security Hub resources. They also can't perform tasks using the AWS Management Console, AWS CLI, or AWS API. An IAM administrator must create IAM policies that grant users and roles permission to perform specific API operations on the specified resources they need. The administrator must then attach those policies to the IAM users or groups that require those permissions.
To learn how to create an IAM identity-based policy using these example JSON policy documents, see Creating Policies on the JSON Tab in the IAM User Guide.
Topics
 Policy best practices
 Using the Security Hub console
 Troubleshooting AWS Security Hub identity and access
Policy best practices
Identity-based policies are very powerful. They determine whether someone can create, access, or delete Security Hub resources in your account. These actions can incur costs for your AWS account. When you create or edit identity-based policies, follow these guidelines and recommendations:
 Get Started Using AWS Managed Policies – To start using Security Hub quickly, use AWS managed policies to give your employees the permissions they need. These policies are already available in your account and are maintained and updated by AWS. For more information, see Get Started Using Permissions With AWS Managed Policies in the IAM User Guide.
 Grant Least Privilege – When you create custom policies, grant only the permissions required to perform a task. Start with a minimum set of permissions and grant additional permissions as necessary. Doing so is more secure than starting with permissions that are too lenient and then trying to tighten them later. For more information, see Grant Least Privilege in the IAM User Guide.
 Enable MFA for Sensitive Operations – For extra security, require IAM users to use multi-factor authentication (MFA) to access sensitive resources or API operations. For more information, see Using Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) in AWS in the IAM User Guide.
 Use Policy Conditions for Extra Security – To the extent that it's practical, define the conditions under which your identity-based policies allow access to a resource. For example, you can write conditions to specify a range of allowable IP addresses that a request must come from. You can also write conditions to allow requests only within a specified date or time range, or to require the use of SSL or MFA. For more information, see IAM JSON Policy Elements: Condition in the IAM User Guide.
Using the Security Hub console
To access the AWS Security Hub console, you must have a minimum set of permissions. These permissions must allow you to list and view details about the Security Hub resources in your AWS account. If you create an identity-based policy that is more restrictive than the minimum required permissions, the console won't function as intended for entities (IAM users or roles) with that policy.
To ensure that those entities can still use the Security Hub console, also attach the following AWS managed policy to the entities. For more information, see Adding permissions to a user in the IAM User Guide:
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "securityhub:*",
            "Resource": "*"    
        },
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "iam:CreateServiceLinkedRole",
            "Resource": "*",
            "Condition": {
                "StringLike": {
                    "iam:AWSServiceName": "securityhub.amazonaws.com"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
You don't need to allow minimum console permissions for users that are making calls only to the AWS CLI or the AWS API. Instead, allow access to only the actions that match the API operation that you're trying to perform.
Troubleshooting AWS Security Hub identity and access
Use the following information to help you diagnose and fix common issues that you might encounter when working with Security Hub and IAM.
Topics
 I am not authorized to perform an action in Security Hub
 I am not authorized to perform iam:PassRole
 I want to view my access keys
 I'm an administrator and want to allow others to access Security Hub
 I want to allow people outside My AWS account to access my Security Hub resources
I am not authorized to perform an action in Security Hub
If the AWS Management Console tells you that you're not authorized to perform an action, then you must contact your administrator for assistance. Your administrator is the person that provided you with your user name and password.
The following example error occurs when the mateojackson IAM user tries to use the console to view details about a widget but does not have securityhub:GetWidget permissions.
User: arn:aws:iam::123456789012:user/mateojackson is not authorized to perform: securityhub:GetWidget on resource: my-example-widget
In this case, Mateo asks his administrator to update his policies to allow him to access the my-example-widget resource using the securityhub:GetWidget action.
I am not authorized to perform iam:PassRole
If you receive an error that you're not authorized to perform the iam:PassRole action, then you must contact your administrator for assistance. Your administrator is the person that provided you with your user name and password. Ask that person to update your policies to allow you to pass a role to Security Hub.
Some AWS services allow you to pass an existing role to that service, instead of creating a new service role or service-linked role. To do this, you must have permissions to pass the role to the service.
The following example error occurs when an IAM user named marymajor tries to use the console to perform an action in Security Hub. However, the action requires the service to have permissions granted by a service role. Mary does not have permissions to pass the role to the service.
User: arn:aws:iam::123456789012:user/marymajor is not authorized to perform: iam:PassRole
In this case, Mary asks her administrator to update her policies to allow her to perform the iam:PassRole action.
I want to view my access keys
After you create your IAM user access keys, you can view your access key ID at any time. However, you can't view your secret access key again. If you lose your secret key, you must create a new access key pair. 
Access keys consist of two parts: an access key ID (for example, AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE) and a secret access key (for example, wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY). Like a user name and password, you must use both the access key ID and secret access key together to authenticate your requests. Manage your access keys as securely as you do your user name and password.
Important
 Do not provide your access keys to a third party, even to help find your canonical user ID. By doing this, you might give someone permanent access to your account. 
When you create an access key pair, you are prompted to save the access key ID and secret access key in a secure location. The secret access key is available only at the time you create it. If you lose your secret access key, you must add new access keys to your IAM user. You can have a maximum of two access keys. If you already have two, you must delete one key pair before creating a new one. To view instructions, see Managing Access Keys in the IAM User Guide.
I'm an administrator and want to allow others to access Security Hub
To allow others to access Security Hub, you must create an IAM entity (user or role) for the person or application that needs access. They will use the credentials for that entity to access AWS. You must then attach a policy to the entity that grants them the correct permissions in Security Hub.
To get started right away, see Creating Your First IAM Delegated User and Group in the IAM User Guide.
I want to allow people outside My AWS account to access my Security Hub resources
You can create a role that users in other accounts or people outside of your organization can use to access your resources. You can specify who is trusted to assume the role. For services that support resource-based policies or access control lists (ACLs), you can use those policies to grant people access to your resources.
To learn more, consult the following:
 To learn whether Security Hub supports these features, see How AWS Security Hub works with IAM.
 To learn how to provide access to your resources across AWS accounts that you own, see Providing Access to an IAM User in Another AWS Account That You Own in the IAM User Guide.
 To learn how to provide access to your resources to third-party AWS accounts, see Providing Access to AWS Accounts Owned by Third Parties in the IAM User Guide.
 To learn how to provide access through identity federation, see Providing Access to Externally Authenticated Users (Identity Federation) in the IAM User Guide.
 To learn the difference between using roles and resource-based policies for cross-account access, see How IAM Roles Differ from Resource-based Policies in the IAM User Guide.