eb platform
Description
This command supports two different workspaces:
Platform
Use this workspace to manage custom platforms.
Environment
Use this workspace to select a default platform or show information about the current platform.
Elastic Beanstalk provides the shortcut ebp for eb platform.
Note
Windows PowerShell uses ebp as a command alias. If you're running the EB CLI in Windows PowerShell, use the long form of this command — eb platform.
Using eb platform for custom platforms
Lists the versions of the current platform and enables you to manage custom platforms.
Syntax
eb platform create [version] [options]
eb platform delete [version] [options]
eb platform events [version] [options]
eb platform init [platform] [options]
eb platform list [options]
eb platform logs [version] [options]
eb platform status [version] [options]
eb platform use [platform] [options]
Options




Name
Description




create [version] [options]
Build a new version of the platform. Learn more.


delete version [options]
Delete a platform version. Learn more.


events [version] [options]
Display the events from a platform version. Learn more.


init [platform] [options]
Initialize a platform repository. Learn more.


list [options]
List the versions of the current platform. Learn more.


logs [version] [options]
Display logs from the builder environment for a platform version. Learn more.


status [version] [options]
Display the status of the a platform version. Learn more.


use [platform] [options]
Select a different platform from which new versions are built. Learn more.


Common options




Common options
All eb platform commands include the following common options.




Name
Description




-h OR --help
Shows a help message and exits.


--debug
Shows additional debugging output.


--quiet
Suppresses all output.


-v OR --verbose
Shows additional output.


--profile PROFILE
Uses the specified PROFILE from your credentials.


-r REGION OR --region REGION
Use the region REGION.


--no-verify-ssl
Do not verify AWS SSL certificates.



Eb platform create
Builds a new version of the platform and returns the ARN for the new version. If there is no builder environment running in the current region, this command launches one. The version and increment options (-M, -m, and -p) are mutually exclusive. 
Options




Name
Description




version
If version isn't specified, creates a new version based on the most-recent platform with the patch version (N in n.n.N) incremented.


-M OR --major-increment
Increments the major version number (the N in N.n.n).


-m OR --minor-increment
Increments the minor version number (the N in n.N.n).


-p OR --patch-increment
Increments the patch version number (the N in n.n.N).


-i INSTANCE_TYPE OR --instance-type INSTANCE_TYPE
Use INSTANCE_TYPE as the instance type, such as t1.micro.


-ip INSTANCE_PROFILE OR --instance-profile INSTANCE_PROFILE
Use INSTANCE_PROFILE as the instance profile when creating AMIs for a custom platform. If the -ip option isn't specified, creates the instance profile aws-elasticbeanstalk-custom-platforme-ec2-role and uses it for the custom platform.


-﻿-﻿tags key1=value1[,key2=value2 ...]
Tag your custom platform version. Tags are specified as a comma-separated list of key=value pairs. For more details, see Tagging custom platform versions.


--timeout minutes
Set number of minutes before the command times out.


--vpc.id VPC_ID
The ID of the VPC in which Packer builds.


--vpc.subnets VPC_SUBNETS
The VPC subnets in which Packer builds.


--vpc.publicip
Associates public IPs to EC2 instances launched.



Eb platform delete
Delete a platform version. The version isn't deleted if an environment is using that version.
Options




Name
Description




version
The version to delete. This value is required.


--cleanup
Remove all platform versions in the Failed state.


--all-platforms
If --cleanup is specified, remove all platform versions in the Failed state for all platforms.


--force
Do not require confirmation when deleting a version.



Eb platform events
Display the events from a platform version. If version is specified, display the events from that version, otherwise display the events from the current version.
Options




Name
Description




version
The version for which events are displayed. This value is required.


-f OR --follow
Continue to display events as they occur.



Eb platform init
Initialize a platform repository.
Options




Name
Description




platform
The name of the platform to initialize. This value is required, unless -i (interactive mode) is enabled.


-i OR --interactive
Use interactive mode.


-k KEYNAME OR --keyname KEYNAME
The default EC2 key name.



You can run this command in a directory that has been previously initialized, although you cannot change the workspace type if run in a directory that has been previously initialized.
To re-initialize with different options, use the -i option.
Eb platform list
List the versions of the platform associated with a workspace (directory) or a region.
The command returns different results depending on the type of workspace you run it in, as follows:
 In a platform workspace (a directory initialized by eb platform init), the command returns a list of all platform versions of the custom platform defined in the workspace. Add the --all-platforms or --verbose option to get a list of all platform versions of all custom platforms your account has in the region associated with the workspace.
 In an application workspace (a directory initialized by eb init), the command returns a list of all platform versions, both for platforms managed by Elastic Beanstalk and for your account's custom platforms. The list uses short platform version names, and some platform version variants might be combined. Add the --verbose option to get a detailed list with full names and all variants listed separately.
 In an uninitialized directory, the command only works with the --region option. It returns a list of all Elastic Beanstalk-managed platform versions supported in the region. The list uses short platform version names, and some platform version variants might be combined. Add the --verbose option to get a detailed list with full names and all variants listed separately.
Options




Name
Description




-a OR --all-platforms
Valid only in an initialized workspace (a directory initialized by eb platform init or eb init). Lists the platform versions of all custom platforms associated with your account.


-s STATUS OR --status STATUS
List only the platforms matching STATUS: [See the AWS documentation website for more details]



Eb platform logs
Display logs from the builder environment for a platform version.
Options




Name
Description




version
The version of the platform for which logs are displayed. If omitted, display logs from the current version.


--stream
Stream deployment logs that were set up with CloudWatch.



Eb platform status
Display the status of the a platform version.
Options




Name
Description




version
The version of the platform for which the status is retrieved. If omitted, display the status of the current version.



Eb platform use
Select a different platform from which new versions are built.
Options




Name
Description




platform
Specifies platform as the active version for this workspace. This value is required.



Using eb platform for environments
Lists supported platforms and enables you to set the default platform and platform version to use when you launch an environment. Use eb platform list to view a list of all supported platforms. Use eb platform select to change the platform for your project. Use eb platform show to view your project's selected platform.
Syntax
eb platform list
eb platform select
eb platform show
Options




Name
Description




list
List the version of the current platform.


select
Select the default platform.


show
Show information about the current platform.



Example 1
The following example lists the names of all configurations for all platforms that Elastic Beanstalk supports.
$ eb platform list
docker-1.5.0
glassfish-4.0-java-7-(preconfigured-docker)
glassfish-4.1-java-8-(preconfigured-docker)
go-1.3-(preconfigured-docker)
go-1.4-(preconfigured-docker)
iis-7.5
iis-8
iis-8.5
multi-container-docker-1.3.3-(generic)
node.js
php-5.3
php-5.4
php-5.5
python
python-2.7
python-3.4
python-3.4-(preconfigured-docker)
ruby-1.9.3
ruby-2.0-(passenger-standalone)
ruby-2.0-(puma)
ruby-2.1-(passenger-standalone)
ruby-2.1-(puma)
ruby-2.2-(passenger-standalone)
ruby-2.2-(puma)
tomcat-6
tomcat-7
tomcat-7-java-6
tomcat-7-java-7
tomcat-8-java-8
Example 2
The following example prompts you to choose from a list of platforms and the version that you want to deploy for the specified platform.
```
$ eb platform select
Select a platform.
1) PHP
2) Node.js
3) IIS
4) Tomcat
5) Python
6) Ruby
7) Docker
8) Multi-container Docker
9) GlassFish
10) Go
(default is 1): 5
Select a platform version.
1) Python 2.7
2) Python
3) Python 3.4 (Preconfigured - Docker)
```
Example 3
The following example shows information about the current default platform.
```
$ eb platform show
Current default platform: Python 2.7
New environments will be running:  64bit Amazon Linux 2014.09 v1.2.0 running Python 2.7
Platform info for environment "tmp-dev":
Current: 64bit Amazon Linux 2014.09 v1.2.0 running Python
Latest:  64bit Amazon Linux 2014.09 v1.2.0 running Python
```