Viewing your Elastic Beanstalk environment logs
AWS Elastic Beanstalk provides two ways to regularly view logs from the Amazon EC2 instances that run your application:
 Configure your Elastic Beanstalk environment to upload rotated instance logs to the environment's Amazon S3 bucket.
 Configure the environment to stream instance logs to Amazon CloudWatch Logs.
When you configure instance log streaming to CloudWatch Logs, Elastic Beanstalk creates CloudWatch Logs log groups for proxy and deployment logs on the Amazon EC2 instances, and transfers these log files to CloudWatch Logs in real time. For more information about instance logs, see Viewing logs from Amazon EC2 instances in your Elastic Beanstalk environment.
In addition to instance logs, if you enable enhanced health for your environment, you can configure the environment to stream health information to CloudWatch Logs. When the environment's health status changes, Elastic Beanstalk adds a record to a health log group, with the new status and a description of the cause of the change. For information about environment health streaming, see Streaming Elastic Beanstalk environment health information to Amazon CloudWatch Logs.
Configuring instance log viewing
To view instance logs, you can enable instance log rotation and log streaming in the Elastic Beanstalk console.
To configure instance log rotation and log streaming in the Elastic Beanstalk console


Open the Elastic Beanstalk console, and in the Regions list, select your AWS Region.


In the navigation pane, choose Environments, and then choose the name of your environment from the list.
Note
If you have many environments, use the search bar to filter the environment list.


In the navigation pane, choose Configuration.


In the Software configuration category, choose Edit.


In the S3 log storage section, select Rotate logs to enable uploading rotated logs to Amazon S3.



in the Instance log streaming to CloudWatch Logs section, configure the following settings:
    Log streaming – Select to enable log streaming.
    Retention – Specify the number of days to retain logs in CloudWatch Logs.
    Lifecycle – Set to Delete logs upon termination to delete logs from CloudWatch Logs immediately if the environment is terminated, instead of waiting for them to expire.


Choose Apply.


After you enable log streaming, you can return to the Software configuration category or page and find the Log Groups link. Click this link to see your instance logs in the CloudWatch console.

Configuring environment health log viewing
To view environment health logs, you can enable environment health log streaming in the Elastic Beanstalk console.
To configure environment health log streaming in the Elastic Beanstalk console


Open the Elastic Beanstalk console, and in the Regions list, select your AWS Region.


In the navigation pane, choose Environments, and then choose the name of your environment from the list.
Note
If you have many environments, use the search bar to filter the environment list.


In the navigation pane, choose Configuration.


In the Monitoring configuration category, choose Edit.


Under Health event streaming to CloudWatch Logs, configure the following settings:
    Log streaming – Choose to enable log streaming.
    Retention – Specify the number of days to retain logs in CloudWatch Logs.
    Lifecycle – Set to Delete logs upon termination to delete logs from CloudWatch Logs immediately if the environment is terminated, instead of waiting for them to expire.


Choose Apply.


After you enable log streaming, you can return to the Monitoring configuration category or page and find the Log Group link. Click this link to see your environment health logs in the CloudWatch console.

Log viewing namespaces
The following namespaces contain settings for log viewing:
 aws:elasticbeanstalk:hostmanager – Configure uploading rotated logs to Amazon S3.
 aws:elasticbeanstalk:cloudwatch:logs – Configure instance log streaming to CloudWatch.
 aws:elasticbeanstalk:cloudwatch:logs:health – Configure environment health streaming to CloudWatch.