Setting up your Java development environment
Set up a Java development environment to test your application locally prior to deploying it to AWS Elastic Beanstalk. This topic outlines development environment setup steps and links to installation pages for useful tools.
For common setup steps and tools that apply to all languages, see Configuring your development machine for use with Elastic Beanstalk.
Topics
 Installing the Java development kit
 Installing a web container
 Downloading libraries
 Installing the AWS SDK for Java
 Installing an IDE or text editor
 Installing the AWS toolkit for Eclipse
Installing the Java development kit
Install the Java Development Kit (JDK). If you don't have a preference, get the latest version. Download the JDK at oracle.com 
The JDK includes the Java compiler, which you can use to build your source files into class files that can be executed on an Elastic Beanstalk web server.
Installing a web container
If you don't already have another web container or framework, install the appropriate version of Tomcat:
  Download Tomcat 8 (requires Java 7 or later) 
  Download Tomcat 7 (requires Java 6 or later) 
Downloading libraries
Elastic Beanstalk platforms include few libraries by default. Download libraries that your application will use and save them in your project folder to deploy in your application source bundle.
If you've installed Tomcat locally, you can copy the servlet API and JavaServer Pages (JSP) API libraries from the installation folder. If you deploy to a Tomcat platform version, you don't need to include these files in your source bundle, but you do need to have them in your classpath to compile any classes that use them.
JUnit, Google Guava, and Apache Commons provide several useful libraries. Visit their home pages to learn more:
  Download JUnit 
  Download Google Guava 
  Download Apache Commons 
Installing the AWS SDK for Java
If you need to manage AWS resources from within your application, install the AWS SDK for Java. For example, with the AWS SDK for Java, you can use Amazon DynamoDB (DynamoDB) to share session states of Apache Tomcat applications across multiple web servers. For more information, see Manage Tomcat Session State with Amazon DynamoDB in the AWS SDK for Java documentation.
Visit the AWS SDK for Java home page for more information and installation instructions.
Installing an IDE or text editor
Integrated development environments (IDEs) provide a wide range of features that facilitate application development. If you haven't used an IDE for Java development, try Eclipse and IntelliJ and see which works best for you.
  Install Eclipse IDE for Java EE Developers 
  Install IntelliJ 
Note
An IDE might add files to your project folder that you might not want to commit to source control. To prevent committing these files to source control, use .gitignore or your source control tool's equivalent.
If you just want to begin coding and don't need all of the features of an IDE, consider installing Sublime Text.
Installing the AWS toolkit for Eclipse
The AWS Toolkit for Eclipse is an open source plug-in for the Eclipse Java IDE that makes it easier for developers to develop, debug, and deploy Java applications using AWS. Visit the AWS Toolkit for Eclipse home page for installation instructions. 