Elastic Beanstalk Linux platforms
AWS Elastic Beanstalk provides a variety of platforms on which you can build your applications. You design your web application to one of these platforms, and Elastic Beanstalk deploys your code to the platform version you selected to create an active application environment.
Elastic Beanstalk provides platforms for different programming languages, application servers, and Docker containers. Some platforms have multiple concurrently-supported versions.
For full coverage of Elastic Beanstalk platforms, see Elastic Beanstalk platforms.
Many of the platforms that Elastic Beanstalk supports are based on the Linux operating system (OS). Specifically, these platforms are based on Amazon Linux, a Linux distribution provided by AWS. Elastic Beanstalk Linux platforms use Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances, and these instances run Amazon Linux. To learn more, see Amazon Linux in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances.
The Elastic Beanstalk Linux platforms provide a lot of functionality out of the box. You can extend the platforms in several ways to support your application. For details, see Extending Elastic Beanstalk Linux platforms.
Topics
 Linux platform versions
 List of Elastic Beanstalk Linux platforms
 Extending Elastic Beanstalk Linux platforms
Linux platform versions
AWS provides two versions of Amazon Linux: Amazon Linux 2 and Amazon Linux AMI. Some key improvements in Amazon Linux 2 compared to Amazon Linux AMI are:
 Amazon Linux 2 offers long-term support.
 Amazon Linux 2 is available as virtual machine images for on-premises development and testing.
 Amazon Linux 2 comes with updated components: the Linux kernel, C library, compiler, and tools. It also uses the systemd service and systems manager as opposed to System V init system in Amazon Linux AMI.
Elastic Beanstalk maintains platform versions with both Amazon Linux versions. For details about supported platform versions, see Elastic Beanstalk supported platforms.
Note
Amazon Linux 2 platform versions are incompatible with previous Amazon Linux AMI platform versions. If you're migrating your Elastic Beanstalk application to Amazon Linux 2, read Migrating your Elastic Beanstalk Linux application to Amazon Linux 2.
List of Elastic Beanstalk Linux platforms
The following list mentions the Linux platforms that Elastic Beanstalk supports for different programming languages, as well as for Docker containers, and links to chapters about them in this developer guide.
 Docker
 Go
 Java
 .NET Core on Linux
 Node.js
 PHP
 Python
 Ruby