Elastic Beanstalk resources
The following related resources can help you as you work with this service.
  Elastic Beanstalk API Reference A comprehensive description of all SOAP and Query APIs. Additionally, it contains a list of all SOAP data types. 
  elastic-beanstalk-samples on GitHub – A GitHub repository with Elastic Beanstalk sample configuration files (.ebextensions). The repository's README.md file has links to additional GitHub repositories with sample applications.
  Elastic Beanstalk Technical FAQ – The top questions developers have asked about this product. 
  AWS Elastic Beanstalk Release Notes – Details about new features, updates, and fixes in Elastic Beanstalk service, platform, console, and EB CLI releases.
  Classes & Workshops – Links to role-based and specialty courses as well as self-paced labs to help sharpen your AWS skills and gain practical experience.
  AWS Developer Tools – Links to developer tools, SDKs, IDE toolkits, and command line tools for developing and managing AWS applications.
  AWS Whitepapers – Links to a comprehensive list of technical AWS whitepapers, covering topics such as architecture, security, and economics and authored by AWS Solutions Architects or other technical experts.
  AWS Support Center – The hub for creating and managing your AWS Support cases. Also includes links to other helpful resources, such as forums, technical FAQs, service health status, and AWS Trusted Advisor.
  AWS Support – The primary web page for information about AWS Support, a one-on-one, fast-response support channel to help you build and run applications in the cloud.
  Contact Us – A central contact point for inquiries concerning AWS billing, account, events, abuse, and other issues. 
  AWS Site Terms – Detailed information about our copyright and trademark; your account, license, and site access; and other topics.
Sample applications
The following are download links to the sample applications that are deployed as part of Getting started using Elastic Beanstalk.
Note
Some samples use features that may have been released since the release of the platform you are using. If the sample fails to run, try updating your platform to a current version, as described in Elastic Beanstalk supported platforms.
 Docker – docker.zip
 Multicontainer Docker – docker-multicontainer-v2.zip
 Preconfigured Docker (Glassfish) – docker-glassfish-v1.zip
 Go – go.zip
 Corretto – corretto.zip
 Tomcat – tomcat.zip
 .NET Core on Linux – dotnet-core-linux.zip
 .NET – dotnet-asp-v1.zip
 Node.js – nodejs.zip 
 PHP – php.zip
 Python – python.zip
 Ruby – ruby.zip