Troubleshooting Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling
Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling provides specific and descriptive errors to help you troubleshoot issues. You can find the error messages in the description of the scaling activities.
Topics
 General troubleshooting issues
 Retrieving an error message
 Troubleshooting Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling: EC2 Instance launch failures
 Troubleshooting Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling: AMI issues
 Troubleshooting Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling: Load balancer issues
 Troubleshooting Auto Scaling: Capacity limits
General troubleshooting issues
Procedures in this guide do not match the console
The procedures in this guide are written to reflect the new console design for Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling. If you are using the older version of the console, many of the concepts and basic procedures in this guide still apply. To access help in the new console, choose the information icon.
Permissions required for a launch template are missing
You can add a launch template to a new Auto Scaling group or to an existing Auto Scaling group. If you are attempting to use a launch template, and you do not have sufficient permissions, you receive an error that you're not authorized to use the launch template. For information about the permissions necessary to work with launch templates, see Launch template support.
Permissions required for an IAM role are missing
To create or update an Auto Scaling group using a launch template that specifies an instance profile, you must have permission to pass IAM roles. It's a permission that AWS also checks whenever you create a launch configuration that specifies an instance profile. For more information, see IAM role for applications that run on Amazon EC2 instances. For further troubleshooting topics related to instance profiles, see Troubleshooting Amazon EC2 and IAM in the IAM User Guide.
Retrieving an error message
To retrieve an error message from the description of scaling activities, use the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/autoscaling/describe-scaling-activities.html command as follows:
aws autoscaling describe-scaling-activities --auto-scaling-group-name my-asg
The following is an example response, where StatusCode contains the current status of the activity and StatusMessage contains the error message:
{
    "Activities": [
        {
            "Description": "Launching a new EC2 instance: i-4ba0837f",
            "AutoScalingGroupName": "my-asg",
            "ActivityId": "f9f2d65b-f1f2-43e7-b46d-d86756459699",
            "Details": "{"Availability Zone":"us-west-2c"}",
            "StartTime": "2013-08-19T20:53:29.930Z",
            "Progress": 100,
            "EndTime": "2013-08-19T20:54:02Z",
            "Cause": "At 2013-08-19T20:53:25Z a user request created an AutoScalingGroup...",
            "StatusCode": "Failed",
            "StatusMessage": "The image id 'ami-4edb0327' does not exist. Launching EC2 instance failed."
        }
   ]
}
The following tables list the types of error messages and provide links to the troubleshooting resources that you can use to troubleshoot issues.
EC2 instance launch failures 



Issue
Error message




Auto Scaling group
AutoScalingGroup  not found.


Availability Zone
The requested Availability Zone is no longer supported. Please retry your request...


AWS account
You are not subscribed to this service. Please see https://aws.amazon.com/.


Block device mapping
Invalid device name upload. Launching EC2 instance failed.


Block device mapping
Value () for parameter virtualName is invalid...


Block device mapping
EBS block device mappings not supported for instance-store AMIs.


Instance type and Availability Zone
Your requested instance type () is not supported in your requested Availability Zone ()...


Key pair
The key pair  does not exist. Launching EC2 instance failed.


Launch configuration
The requested configuration is currently not supported.


Placement group
Placement groups may not be used with instances of type 'm1.large'. Launching EC2 instance failed.


Security group
The security group  does not exist. Launching EC2 instance failed.


Service-linked role
Client.InternalError: Client error on launch.



AMI issues 



Issue
Error message




AMI ID
The AMI ID  does not exist. Launching EC2 instance failed.


AMI ID
AMI  is pending, and cannot be run. Launching EC2 instance failed.


AMI ID
Value () for parameter virtualName is invalid.


Architecture mismatch
The requested instance type's architecture (i386) does not match the architecture in the manifest for ami-6622f00f (x86_64). Launching ec2 instance failed.



Load balancer issues 



Issue
Error message




Cannot find load balancer
Cannot find Load Balancer . Validating load balancer configuration failed.


Instances in VPC
EC2 instance  is not in VPC. Updating load balancer configuration failed.


No active load balancer
There is no ACTIVE Load Balancer named . Updating load balancer configuration failed.


Security token
The security token included in the request is invalid. Validating load balancer configuration failed.



Capacity limits 



Issue
Error message




Capacity limits
 instance(s) are already running. Launching EC2 instance failed.


Insufficient capacity in Availability Zone
We currently do not have sufficient  capacity in the Availability Zone you requested ()...


