Creating a launch template for an Auto Scaling group
Before you can create an Auto Scaling group using a launch template, you must create a launch template that includes the parameters required to launch an EC2 instance, such as the ID of the Amazon Machine Image (AMI) and an instance type.
The following procedure works for creating a new launch template. After you create your launch template, you can create the Auto Scaling group by following the instructions in Creating an Auto Scaling group using a launch template.
Topics
 Creating your launch template (console)
 Creating a launch template from an existing instance (console)
 Creating a launch template (AWS CLI)
Note
Keep in mind the following information when creating a launch template for use with an Auto Scaling group:
A launch template lets you configure additional settings in your Auto Scaling group to launch multiple instance types and combine On-Demand and Spot purchase options, as described in Auto Scaling groups with multiple instance types and purchase options. Launching instances with such a combination is not supported:
If you specify a Spot Instance request in the launch template
In EC2-Classic
Creating a launch template also enables you to take advantage of features of Amazon EC2 such as Dedicated Hosts. Support for Dedicated Hosts (host tenancy) is only available if you specify a host resource group. You cannot target a specific host ID or use host placement affinity.
A launch template lets you configure a network type (VPC or EC2-Classic), subnet, and Availability Zone. However, these settings are ignored in favor of what is specified in the Auto Scaling group. 
Creating your launch template (console)
Follow these steps to configure your launch template for the following: 
 Specify the Amazon machine image (AMI) from which to launch the instances.
 Choose an instance type that is compatible with the AMI you've specified. 
 Specify the key pair to use when connecting to instances, for example, using SSH.
 Add one or more security groups to allow relevant access to the instances from an external network.
 Specify whether to attach additional EBS volumes or instance store volumes to each instance. 
 Add custom tags (key-value pairs) to the instances and volumes.
To create a launch template


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


On the navigation pane, under INSTANCES, choose Launch Templates.


Choose Create launch template. Enter a name and provide a description for the initial version of the launch template.


Under Launch template contents, fill out each required field and any optional fields to use as your instance launch specification.


Amazon machine image (AMI): Choose the ID of the AMI from which to launch the instances. You can search through all available AMIs, or from the Quick Start list, select from one of the commonly used AMIs in the list. If you don't see the AMI that you need, you can find a suitable AMI, make note of its ID, and specify it as a custom value.


Instance type: Choose the instance type.


(Optional) Key pair (login): Specify a key pair.


(Optional) Under Network settings, do the following:


Networking platform: Choose whether to launch instances into a VPC or EC2-Classic, if applicable. However, the network type and Availability Zone settings of the launch template are ignored for Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling in favor of the settings of the Auto Scaling group. 


Security groups: Choose one or more security groups, or leave blank to configure one or more security groups as part of the network interface. Each security group must be configured for the VPC that your Auto Scaling group will launch instances into. If you're using EC2-Classic, you must use security groups created specifically for EC2-Classic. 
If you don't specify any security groups in your launch template, Amazon EC2 uses the default security group. By default, this security group doesn't allow inbound traffic from external networks.


(Optional) For Storage (Volumes), specify volumes to attach to the instances in addition to the volumes specified by the AMI (Volume 1 (AMI Root)). To add a new volume, choose Add new volume.


Volume type: The type of volume depends on the instance type that you've chosen. Each instance type has an associated root device volume, either an Amazon EBS volume or an instance store volume. For more information, see Amazon EC2 instance store and Amazon EBS volumes in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances.


Device name: Specify a device name for the volume.


Snapshot: Enter the ID of the snapshot from which to create the volume.


Size (GiB): For Amazon EBS-backed volumes, specify a storage size. If you're creating the volume from a snapshot and don't specify a volume size, the default is the snapshot size.


Volume type: For Amazon EBS volumes, choose the volume type.


IOPS: With a Provisioned IOPS SSD volume, enter the maximum number of input/output operations per second (IOPS) that the volume should support.


Delete on termination: For Amazon EBS volumes, choose whether to delete the volume when the associated instance is terminated. 


Encrypted: Choose Yes to change the encryption state of an Amazon EBS volume. The default effect of setting this parameter varies with the choice of volume source, as described in the table below. You must in all cases have permission to use the specified CMK. For more information about specifying encrypted volumes, see Amazon EBS encryption in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances. 
Encryption outcomes 
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]
* If encryption by default is enabled, all newly created volumes (whether or not the Encrypted parameter is set to Yes) are encrypted using the default CMK. Setting both the Encrypted and Key parameters allows you to specify a non-default CMK. 


Key: If you chose Yes in the previous step, optionally enter the customer master key (CMK) you want to use when encrypting the volumes. Enter any CMK that you previously created using the AWS Key Management Service. You can paste the full ARN of any key that you have access to. For more information, see the AWS Key Management Service Developer Guide and the Required CMK key policy for use with encrypted volumes topic in this guide. Note: Amazon EBS does not support asymmetric CMKs. 
Note
Providing a CMK without also setting the Encrypted parameter results in an error. 


For Instance tags, specify tags by providing key and value combinations. You can tag the instances, the volumes, or both.


To change the default network interface, see Changing the default network interface. Skip this step if you want to keep the default network interface.


To configure advanced settings, see Configuring advanced settings for your launch template. Otherwise, choose Create launch template. 


Changing the default network interface
An Auto Scaling group can connect to the network only on the primary network interface (eth0). You can change the default primary network interface by following this procedure. This allows you to define, for example, whether you want to assign a public IP address to each instance instead of defaulting to the auto-assign public IP setting on the subnet.
Considerations and limitations
When changing the default network interface, keep in mind the following considerations and limitations:
 You must configure the security group as part of the network interface, and not in the Security groups section of the template. You cannot specify security groups in both places.
 You cannot specify multiple network interfaces. 
 You cannot assign specific private IP addresses. When an instance launches, a private address is allocated from the CIDR range of the subnet in which the instance is launched. For more information on specifying CIDR ranges for your VPC or subnet, see the Amazon VPC User Guide.
 You can only launch one instance if you specify a network interface ID for Network interface. For this to work, you must use the AWS CLI or an SDK to create the Auto Scaling group. When you create the group, you must specify the Availability Zone, but not the subnet ID. Also, you can specify an existing network interface only if it has a device index of 0.
To change the default network interface


Under Network interfaces, choose Add network interface.


Specify the primary network interface (eth0), paying attention to the following fields:


Device: Specify eth0 as the device name (the device for which the device index is 0). 


Network interface: Leave blank to create a new network interface when an instance is launched, or enter the ID of an existing network interface. If you specify an ID, this limits your Auto Scaling group to one instance. 


Description: Enter a descriptive name.


Subnet: While you may choose to specify a subnet, it is ignored for Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling in favor of the settings of the Auto Scaling group. 


Auto-assign public IP: Choose whether to assign a public IP address to the group's instances. This setting takes precedence over settings you configure for the subnets. If you do not set a value, the default is to use the auto-assign public IP settings of the subnets that your instances are launched into.


Security group ID: Enter the IDs of one or more security groups. Each security group must be configured for the VPC that your Auto Scaling group will launch instances into. Separate the entries with commas.


Delete on termination: Choose whether the network interface is deleted when the Auto Scaling group scales in and terminates the instance to which the network interface is attached.


Configuring advanced settings for your launch template
You can define any additional capabilities that your Auto Scaling instances need. For example, you can choose an IAM role that your application can use when it accesses other AWS resources or specify the instance user data that can be used to perform common automated configuration tasks after an instance starts. 
The following steps discuss the most useful settings to pay attention to. For more information about any of the settings under Advanced details, see Creating a launch template in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances.
To configure advanced settings


For Advanced details, expand the section to view the fields.


For Purchasing option, you can choose Request Spot Instances to request Spot Instances at the Spot price, capped at the On-Demand price, and choose Customize to change the default Spot Instance settings. For an Auto Scaling group, you must specify a one-time request with no end date (the default). For more information, see Launching Spot Instances in your Auto Scaling group. 
Note
If you leave this setting disabled, you can request Spot Instances later in your Auto Scaling group. This also gives you the option of specifying multiple instance types. That way, if Amazon EC2 needs to reclaim your Spot Instances, we can launch replacement instances from another Spot pool after the Spot Instances in your group are terminated. For more information, see Auto Scaling groups with multiple instance types and purchase options.


For IAM instance profile, you can specify an AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) instance profile to associate with the instances. When you choose an instance profile, you associate the corresponding IAM role with the EC2 instances. For more information, see IAM role for applications that run on Amazon EC2 instances.


For Termination protection, choose whether to protect instances from accidental termination. When you enable termination protection, it provides additional termination protection, but it does not protect from Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling initiated termination. To control whether an Auto Scaling group can terminate a particular instance, use Instance scale-in protection.


For Detailed CloudWatch monitoring, choose whether to enable the instances to publish metric data at 1-minute intervals to Amazon CloudWatch. Additional charges apply. For more information, see Configuring monitoring for Auto Scaling instances.


For T2/T3 Unlimited, choose whether to enable applications to burst beyond the baseline for as long as needed. This field is only valid for T2, T3, and T3a instances. Additional charges may apply. For more information, see Using an Auto Scaling group to launch a burstable performance instance as unlimited in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances.


For Placement group name, you can specify a placement group in which to launch the instances. Not all instance types can be launched in a placement group. If you configure an Auto Scaling group using a CLI command that specifies a different placement group, the setting is ignored in favor of the one specified for the Auto Scaling group.


For Capacity Reservation, you can specify whether to launch the instances into shared capacity, any open Capacity Reservation, a specific Capacity Reservation, or a Capacity Reservation group. For more information, see Launching instances into an existing capacity reservation in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances.


For Tenancy, you can choose to run your instances on shared hardware (Shared), on dedicated hardware (Dedicated), or when using a host resource group, on Dedicated Hosts (Dedicated host). Additional charges may apply. 


If you chose Dedicated Hosts, complete the following information:


For Tenancy host resource group, you can specify a host resource group for a BYOL AMI to use on Dedicated Hosts. You do not have to have already allocated Dedicated Hosts in your account before you use this feature. Your instances will automatically launch onto Dedicated Hosts regardless. Note that an AMI based on a license configuration association can be mapped to only one host resource group at a time. For more information, see Host Resource Groups in the AWS License Manager User Guide. 


For License configurations, specify the license configuration to use. You can launch instances against the specified license configuration to track your license usage. For more information, see Create a license configuration in the AWS License Manager User Guide.


To configure instance metadata options for all of the instances that are associated with this version of the launch template, do the following:


For Metadata accessible, choose whether to enable or disable access to the HTTP endpoint of the instance metadata service. By default, the HTTP endpoint is enabled. If you choose to disable the endpoint, access to your instance metadata is turned off. You can specify the condition to require IMDSv2 only when the HTTP endpoint is enabled. 


For Metadata version, you can choose to require the use of Instance Metadata Service Version 2 (IMDSv2) when requesting instance metadata. If you do not specify a value, the default is to support both IMDSv1 and IMDSv2.


For Metadata token response hop limit, you can set the allowable number of network hops for the metadata token. If you do not specify a value, the default is 1.


For more information, see Configuring the instance metadata service in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances.


For User data, you can specify user data to configure an instance during launch, or to run a configuration script after the instance starts.


Choose Create launch template.


Creating a launch template from an existing instance (console)
To create a launch template from an existing instance


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


On the navigation pane, under INSTANCES, choose Instances.


Select the instance and choose Actions, Create Template from Instance.


Provide a name and description. Adjust any other launch parameters as required, and choose Create Launch Template.


Creating a launch template (AWS CLI)
To create a launch template using the command line
You can use one of the following commands:
 https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/create-launch-template.html (AWS CLI)
 https://docs.aws.amazon.com/powershell/latest/reference/items/New-EC2LaunchTemplate.html (AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell)
Create a launch template using the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/create-launch-template.html command as follows. Specify a value for Groups that corresponds to security groups for the VPC that your Auto Scaling group will launch instances into. Specify the VPC and subnets as properties of the Auto Scaling group.
aws ec2 create-launch-template --launch-template-name my-template-for-auto-scaling --version-description version1 \
  --launch-template-data '{"NetworkInterfaces":[{"DeviceIndex":0,"AssociatePublicIpAddress":true,"Groups":["sg-7c227019"],"DeleteOnTermination":true}],"ImageId":"ami-01e24be29428c15b2","InstanceType":"t2.micro","TagSpecifications": [{"ResourceType":"instance","Tags":[{"Key":"purpose","Value":"webserver"}]}]}'
Use the following https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/describe-launch-templates.html command to describe the launch template my-template-for-auto-scaling.
aws ec2 describe-launch-templates --launch-template-names my-template-for-auto-scaling
Use the following https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/describe-launch-template-versions.html command to describe the versions of the specified launch template my-template-for-auto-scaling.
aws ec2 describe-launch-template-versions --launch-template-id lt-068f72b72934aff71
The following is an example response.
{
    "LaunchTemplateVersions": [
        {
            "VersionDescription": "version1",
            "LaunchTemplateId": "lt-068f72b72934aff71",
            "LaunchTemplateName": "my-template-for-auto-scaling",
            "VersionNumber": 1,
            "CreatedBy": "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:user/Bob",
            "LaunchTemplateData": {
                "TagSpecifications": [
                    {
                        "ResourceType": "instance",
                        "Tags": [
                            {
                                "Key": "purpose",
                                "Value": "webserver"
                            }
                        ]
                    }
                ],
                "ImageId": "ami-01e24be29428c15b2",
                "InstanceType": "t2.micro",
                "NetworkInterfaces": [
                    {
                        "DeviceIndex": 0,
                        "DeleteOnTermination": true,
                        "Groups": [
                            "sg-7c227019"
                        ],
                        "AssociatePublicIpAddress": true
                    }
                ]
            },
            "DefaultVersion": true,
            "CreateTime": "2019-02-28T19:52:27.000Z"
        }
    ]
}