Document history
The following table describes important additions to the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling documentation, beginning in July 2018. For notification about updates to this documentation, you can subscribe to the RSS feed.



Change
Description
Date




Instance metadata service version 2
You can require the use of Instance Metadata Service Version 2, which is a session-oriented method for requesting instance metadata, when using launch configurations. For more information, see Configuring the instance metadata options in the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
July 28, 2020


Guide changes
Various improvements and new console procedures in the Controlling which Auto Scaling instances terminate during scale in, Monitoring your Auto Scaling instances and groups, Launch templates, and Launch configurations sections of the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
July 28, 2020


Instance refresh
Start an instance refresh to update all instances in your Auto Scaling group when you make a configuration change. For more information, see Replacing Auto Scaling instances based on an instance refresh in the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
June 16, 2020


Guide changes
Various improvements in the Replacing Auto Scaling instances based on maximum instance lifetime, Auto Scaling groups with multiple instance types and purchase options, Scaling based on Amazon SQS, and Tagging Auto Scaling groups and instances sections of the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
May 6, 2020


Guide changes
Various improvements to IAM documentation. For more information, see Launch template support and Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling identity-based policy examples in the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
March 4, 2020


Disable scaling policies
You can now disable and re-enable scaling policies. This feature allows you to temporarily disable a scaling policy while preserving the configuration details so that you can enable the policy again later. For more information, see Disabling a scaling policy for an Auto Scaling group in the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
February 18, 2020


Add notification functionality
Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling now sends events to your AWS Personal Health Dashboard when your Auto Scaling groups cannot scale out due to a missing security group or launch template. For more information, see Personal Health Dashboard notifications for Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling in the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
February 12, 2020


Guide changes
Various improvements and corrections in the How Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling works with IAM, Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling identity-based policy examples, Required CMK key policy for use with encrypted volumes, and Monitoring your Auto Scaling instances and groups sections of the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
February 10, 2020


Guide changes
Improved documentation for Auto Scaling groups that use instance weighting. Learn how to use scaling policies when using "capacity units" to measure desired capacity. For more information, see How scaling policies work and Scaling adjustment types in the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
February 6, 2020


New "Security" chapter
A new Security chapter in the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide helps you understand how to apply the shared responsibility model when using Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling. As part of this update, the user guide chapter "Controlling Access to Your Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling Resources" has been replaced by a new, more useful section, Identity and access management for Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling.
February 4, 2020


Recommendations for instance types
AWS Compute Optimizer provides Amazon EC2 instance recommendations to help you improve performance, save money, or both. For more information, see Getting recommendations for an instance type in the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
December 3, 2019


Dedicated Hosts and host resource groups
Updated guide to show how to create a launch template that specifies a host resource group. This allows you to create an Auto Scaling group with a launch template that specifies a BYOL AMI to use on Dedicated Hosts. For more information, see Creating a launch template for an Auto Scaling group in the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
December 3, 2019


Support for Amazon VPC endpoints
You can now establish a private connection between your VPC and Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling. For more information, see Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling and interface VPC endpoints in the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
November 22, 2019


Maximum instance lifetime
You can now replace instances automatically by specifying the maximum length of time that an instance can be in service. If any instances are approaching this limit, Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling gradually replaces them. For more information, see Replacing Auto Scaling instances based on maximum instance lifetime in the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
November 19, 2019


Instance weighting
For Auto Scaling groups with multiple instance types, you can now optionally specify the number of capacity units that each instance type contributes to the capacity of the group. For more information, see Instance weighting for Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling in the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
November 19, 2019


Minimum number of instance types
You no longer have to specify additional instance types for groups of Spot, On-Demand, and Reserved Instances. For all Auto Scaling groups, the minimum is now one instance type. For more information, see Auto Scaling groups with multiple instance types and purchase options in the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
September 16, 2019


Support for new Spot allocation strategy
Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling now supports a new Spot allocation strategy "capacity-optimized" that fulfills your request using Spot Instance pools that are optimally chosen based on the available Spot capacity. For more information, see Auto Scaling groups with multiple instance types and purchase options in the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
August 12, 2019


Guide changes
Improved Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling documentation in the Service-linked roles and Required CMK key policy for use with encrypted volumes topics.
August 1, 2019


Support for tagging enhancement
Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling now adds tags to Amazon EC2 instances as part of the same API call that launches the instances. For more information, see Tagging Auto Scaling groups and instances.
July 26, 2019


Guide changes
Improved Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling documentation in the Suspending and resuming scaling processes topic. Updated Customer managed policy examples to include an example policy that allows users to pass only specific custom suffix service-linked roles to Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling.
June 13, 2019


Support for new Amazon EBS feature
Added support for new Amazon EBS feature in the launch template topic. Change the encryption state of an EBS volume while restoring from a snapshot. For more information, see Creating a launch template for an Auto Scaling group in the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
May 13, 2019


Guide changes
Improved Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling documentation in the following sections: Controlling which Auto Scaling instances terminate during scale in, Auto Scaling groups, Auto Scaling groups with multiple instance types and purchase options, and Dynamic scaling for Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling.
March 12, 2019


Support for combining instance types and purchase options
Provision and automatically scale instances across purchase options (Spot, On-Demand, and Reserved Instances) and instance types within a single Auto Scaling group. For more information, see Auto Scaling groups with multiple instance types and purchase options in the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
November 13, 2018


Updated topic for scaling based on Amazon SQS
Updated guide to explain how you can use custom metrics to scale an Auto Scaling group in response to changing demand from an Amazon SQS queue. For more information, see Scaling based on Amazon SQS in the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
July 26, 2018



The following table describes important changes to the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling documentation before July 2018.



Feature
Description
Release date




Support for target tracking scaling policies
Set up dynamic scaling for your application in just a few steps. For more information, see Target tracking scaling policies for Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling.
12 July 2017


Support for resource-level permissions
Create IAM policies to control access at the resource level. For more information, see Controlling access to your Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling resources.
15 May 2017


Monitoring improvements
Auto Scaling group metrics no longer require that you enable detailed monitoring. You can now enable group metrics collection and view metrics graphs from the Monitoring tab in the console. For more information, see Monitoring your Auto Scaling groups and instances using Amazon CloudWatch.
18 August 2016


Support for Application Load Balancers
Attach one or more target groups to a new or existing Auto Scaling group. For more information, see Attaching a load balancer to your Auto Scaling group.
11 August 2016


Events for lifecycle hooks
Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling sends events to CloudWatch Events when it executes lifecycle hooks. For more information, see Getting CloudWatch Events when your Auto Scaling group scales.
24 February 2016


Instance protection
Prevent Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling from selecting specific instances for termination when scaling in. For more information, see Instance protection.
07 December 2015


Step scaling policies
Create a scaling policy that enables you to scale based on the size of the alarm breach. For more information, see Scaling policy types.
06 July 2015


Update load balancer
Attach a load balancer to or detach a load balancer from an existing Auto Scaling group. For more information, see Attaching a load balancer to your Auto Scaling group.
11 June 2015


Support for ClassicLink
Link EC2-Classic instances in your Auto Scaling group to a VPC, enabling communication between these linked EC2-Classic instances and instances in the VPC using private IP addresses. For more information, see Linking EC2-Classic instances to a VPC.
19 January 2015


Lifecycle hooks
Hold your newly launched or terminating instances in a pending state while you perform actions on them. For more information, see Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling lifecycle hooks.
30 July 2014


Detach instances
Detach instances from an Auto Scaling group. For more information, see Detach EC2 instances from your Auto Scaling group.
30 July 2014


Put instances into a Standby state
Put instances that are in an InService state into a Standby state. For more information, see Temporarily removing instances from your Auto Scaling group.
30 July 2014


Manage tags
Manage your Auto Scaling groups using the AWS Management Console. For more information, see Tagging Auto Scaling groups and instances.
01 May 2014


Support for Dedicated Instances
Launch Dedicated Instances by specifying a placement tenancy attribute when you create a launch configuration. For more information, see Instance placement tenancy.
23 April 2014


Create a group or launch configuration from an EC2 instance
Create an Auto Scaling group or a launch configuration using an EC2 instance. For information about creating a launch configuration using an EC2 instance, see Creating a launch configuration using an EC2 instance. For information about creating an Auto Scaling group using an EC2 instance, see Creating an Auto Scaling group using an EC2 instance.
02 January 2014


Attach instances
Enable automatic scaling for an EC2 instance by attaching the instance to an existing Auto Scaling group. For more information, see Attach EC2 instances to your Auto Scaling group.
02 January 2014


View account limits
View the limits on Auto Scaling resources for your account. For more information, see Auto Scaling limits.
02 January 2014


Console support for Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling
Access Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling using the AWS Management Console. For more information, see Getting started with Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling.
10 December 2013


Assign a public IP address
Assign a public IP address to an instance launched into a VPC. For more information, see Launching Auto Scaling instances in a VPC.
19 September 2013


Instance termination policy
Specify an instance termination policy for Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling to use when terminating EC2 instances. For more information, see Controlling which Auto Scaling instances terminate during scale in.
17 September 2012


Support for IAM roles
Launch EC2 instances with an IAM instance profile. You can use this feature to assign IAM roles to your instances, allowing your applications to access other AWS services securely. For more information, see Launch Auto Scaling instances with an IAM role.
11 June 2012


Support for Spot Instances
Request Spot Instances in Auto Scaling groups by specifying a Spot Instance bid price in your launch configuration. For more information, see Launching Spot Instances in your Auto Scaling group.
7 June 2012


Tag groups and instances
Tag Auto Scaling groups and specify that the tag also applies to EC2 instances launched after the tag was created. For more information, see Tagging Auto Scaling groups and instances.
26 January 2012


Support for Amazon SNS
Use Amazon SNS to receive notifications whenever Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling launches or terminates EC2 instances. For more information, see Getting SNS notifications when your Auto Scaling group scales. Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling also added the following new features: [See the AWS documentation website for more details]
20 July 2011


Scheduled scaling actions
Added support for scheduled scaling actions. For more information, see Scheduled scaling for Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling.
2 December 2010


Support for Amazon VPC
Added support for Amazon VPC. For more information, see Launching Auto Scaling instances in a VPC.
2 December 2010


Support for HPC clusters
Added support for high performance computing (HPC) clusters.
2 December 2010


Support for health checks
Added support for using Elastic Load Balancing health checks with Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling-managed EC2 instances. For more information, see Using ELB health checks with Auto Scaling.
2 December 2010


Support for CloudWatch alarms
Removed the older trigger mechanism and redesigned Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling to use the CloudWatch alarm feature. For more information, see Dynamic scaling for Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling.
2 December 2010


Suspend and resume scaling
Added support to suspend and resume scaling processes.
2 December 2010


Support for IAM
Added support for IAM. For more information, see Controlling access to your Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling resources.
2 December 2010


