Configure the Lambda function for AWS IoT Greengrass
You are now ready to configure your Lambda function for AWS IoT Greengrass.
In this step, you:
 Use the AWS IoT console to add the Lambda function to your Greengrass group.
 Configure group-specific settings for the Lambda function.
 Add a subscription to the group that allows the Lambda function to publish MQTT messages to AWS IoT.
 Configure local log settings for the group.


In the AWS IoT console, under Greengrass, choose Groups, and then choose the group that you created in Module 2.


On the group configuration page, choose Lambdas, and then choose Add Lambda.



Choose Use existing Lambda.



Search for the name of the Lambda you created in the previous step (Greengrass_HelloWorld, not the alias name), select it, and then choose Next:



For the version, choose Alias: GG_HelloWorld, and then choose Finish. You should see the Greengrass_HelloWorld Lambda function in your group, using the GG_HelloWorld alias.


Choose the ellipsis (…), and then choose Edit Configuration:



On the Group-specific Lambda configuration page, make the following changes:
    Set Timeout to 25 seconds. This Lambda function sleeps for 20 seconds before each invocation.
    For Lambda lifecycle, choose Make this function long-lived and keep it running indefinitely.



Note
A long-lived (or pinned) Lambda function starts automatically after AWS IoT Greengrass starts and keeps running in its own container. This is in contrast to an on-demand Lambda function, which starts when invoked and stops when there are no tasks left to execute. For more information, see Lifecycle configuration for Greengrass Lambda functions.

Keep the default values for all other fields, such as Run as, Containerization, and Input payload data type, and choose Update to save your changes. For information about Lambda function properties, see Controlling execution of Greengrass Lambda functions by using group-specific configuration.

Next, create a subscription that allows the Lambda function to send MQTT messages to AWS IoT Core.
A Greengrass Lambda function can exchange MQTT messages with:
    Devices in the Greengrass group.
    Connectors in the group.
    Other Lambda functions in the group.
    AWS IoT Core.
    The local shadow service. For more information, see Module 5: Interacting with device shadows.
The group uses subscriptions to control how these entities can communicate with each other. Subscriptions provide predictable interactions and a layer of security.
A subscription consists of a source, target, and topic. The source is the originator of the message. The target is the destination of the message. The topic allows you to filter the data that is sent from the source to the target. The source or target can be a Greengrass device, Lambda function, connector, device shadow, or AWS IoT Core.
Note
A subscription is directed in the sense that messages flow in a specific direction: from the source to the target. To allow two-way communication, you must set up two subscriptions.
Note
 Currently, the subscription topic filter does not allow more than a single  character in a topic. The topic filter only allows a single # character at the end of a topic. 
The Greengrass_HelloWorld Lambda function sends messages only to the hello/world topic in AWS IoT Core, so you only need to create one subscription from the Lambda function to AWS IoT Core. You create this in the next step.

On the group configuration page, choose Subscriptions, and then choose Add your first Subscription.


For an example that shows you how to create a subscription using the AWS CLI, see create-subscription-definition in the AWS CLI Command Reference.


In Select a source, choose Select. Then, on the Lambdas tab, choose Greengrass_HelloWorld as the source. 



For Select a target, choose Select. Then, on the Service tab, choose IoT Cloud, and then choose Next.



For Topic filter, enter hello/world, and then choose Next.



Choose Finish.


Configure the group's logging settings. For this tutorial, you configure AWS IoT Greengrass system components and user-defined Lambda functions to write logs to the file system of the core device.


On the group configuration page, choose Settings.


For Local logs configuration, choose Edit.


On the Configure Group logging page, choose Add another log type.


For event source, choose User Lambdas and Greengrass system, and then choose Update.


Keep the default values for logging level and disk space limit, and then choose Save.


You can use logs to troubleshoot any issues you might encounter when running this tutorial. When troubleshooting issues, you can temporarily change the logging level to Debug. For more information, see Accessing file system logs.

If the Java 8 runtime isn't installed on your core device, you must install it or disable stream manager.
Note
This tutorial doesn't use stream manager, but it does use the Default Group creation workflow that enables stream manager by default. If stream manager is enabled but Java 8 isn't installed, the group deployment fails. For more information, see the stream manager requirements.

To disable stream manager:


On the group settings page, under Stream manager, choose Edit.


Choose Disable, and then choose Save.

