Configure AWS IoT Greengrass on AWS IoT


Sign in to the AWS Management Console on your computer and open the AWS IoT console. If this is your first time opening this console, choose Get started.


In the navigation pane, choose Greengrass.

Note
If you don't see the Greengrass node, change to an AWS Region that supports AWS IoT Greengrass. For the list of supported Regions, see AWS IoT Greengrass in the Amazon Web Services General Reference.


On the Welcome to AWS IoT Greengrass page, choose Create a Group.


An AWS IoT Greengrass group contains settings and other information about its components, such as devices, Lambda functions, and connectors. A group defines how its components can interact with each other.
Tip
For an example that uses the AWS IoT Greengrass API to create and deploy a group, see the  gg_group_setup package from GitHub.

If prompted, on the Greengrass needs your permission to access other services dialog box, choose Grant permission to allow the console to create or configure the Greengrass service role for you. You must use a service role to authorize AWS IoT Greengrass to access other AWS services on your behalf. Otherwise, deployments fail.


The AWS account you used to sign in must have permissions to create or manage the IAM role. For more information, see Greengrass service role.

On the Set up your Greengrass group page, choose Use default creation to create a group and an AWS IoT Greengrass core.

Each group requires a core, which is a device that manages local IoT processes. A core needs a certificate and keys that allow it to access AWS IoT and an AWS IoT policy that allows it to perform AWS IoT and AWS IoT Greengrass actions. When you choose the Use default creation option, these security resources are created for you and the core is provisioned in the AWS IoT registry.



Enter a name for your group (for example, MyFirstGroup), and then choose Next.



Use the default name for the AWS IoT Greengrass core, and then choose Next.



On the Review Group creation page, choose Create Group and Core.



AWS IoT creates an AWS IoT Greengrass group with default security policies and configuration files for you to load onto your device.


Download your core's security resources and configuration file.


On the confirmation page, under Download and store your Core's security resources, choose Download these resources as a tar.gz. The name of your downloaded tar.gz file starts with a 10-digit hash that's also used for the certificate and key file names.
Important
Before you choose Finish, download the security resources.



Skip Choose a root CA for now. The next section includes a step where you download the root CA certificate.


After you download the security resources, choose Finish.


The group configuration page displays in the console:


From the AWS IoT Greengrass Core software section in this guide, download the AWS IoT Greengrass Core software installation package.

Choose the package that best fits the CPU architecture, distribution, and OS of your core device. For example:
    For Raspberry Pi Model B or B, download the package for the Armv7l architecture and Raspbian distribution.
    For an Amazon EC2 instance, download the package for the x86_64 architecture and Linux distribution.
    For NVIDIA Jetson TX2, download the package for the Armv8 (AArch64) architecture and Arch Linux distribution.
    For Intel Atom, download the package for the x86_64 architecture and Linux distribution.