Data Collection Tools
The Discovery Connector and Discovery Agent are the data collection tools that Application Discovery Service uses to help you discover your existing infrastructure. You can download and deploy discovery connectors and discovery agents as explained in AWS Agentless Discovery Connector and  AWS Application Discovery Agent.
These data collection tools store their data in the Application Discovery Service's repository, providing details about each server and the processes running on them. When either of these tools is deployed, you can start, stop, and view the collected data from the Migration Hub console.
Topics
 Starting and Stopping Data Collectors
 Viewing and Sorting Data Collectors
Starting and Stopping Data Collectors
Whether you deployed a Discovery Connector or a Discovery Agent, you can start or stop their data collection process on the Data Collectors page of the Migration Hub console.
To start or stop data collection tools


In the navigation pane, choose Data Collectors.


Choose either the Connectors or Agents tab.


Select the check box of the collection tool you want to start or stop.


Choose Start data collection or Stop data collection.


Viewing and Sorting Data Collectors
If you deployed many data collectors, you can sort the Discovery Connectors or Discovery Agents that are returned to the Data Collectors page of the console. You can do this by applying filters in the search bar. You can search and filter on most of the criteria specified in the Data Collectors list.
The following table shows the search criteria that you can use, including operators, values, and a definition of the values.
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]
To sort data collectors by applying search filters


In the navigation pane, choose Data Collectors.


Choose either the Connectors or Agents tab.


Click inside the search bar and choose a search criterion from the list.


Choose an operator from the next list.


Choose a value from the last list.

