How AWS Application Discovery Service Works with IAM
Before you use IAM to manage access to Application Discovery Service, you should understand what IAM features are available to use with Application Discovery Service. To get a high-level view of how Application Discovery Service and other AWS services work with IAM, see AWS Services That Work with IAM in the IAM User Guide.
Topics
 Application Discovery Service Identity-Based Policies
 Application Discovery Service Resource-Based Policies
 Authorization Based on Application Discovery Service Tags
 Application Discovery Service IAM Roles
Application Discovery Service Identity-Based Policies
With IAM identity-based policies, you can specify allowed or denied actions and resources as well as the conditions under which actions are allowed or denied. Application Discovery Service supports specific actions, resources, and condition keys. To learn about all of the elements that you use in a JSON policy, see IAM JSON Policy Elements Reference in the IAM User Guide.
Actions
The Action element of an IAM identity-based policy describes the specific action or actions that will be allowed or denied by the policy. Policy actions usually have the same name as the associated AWS API operation. The action is used in a policy to grant permissions to perform the associated operation. 
Policy actions in Application Discovery Service use the following prefix before the action: discovery:. Policy statements must include either an Action or NotAction element. Application Discovery Service defines its own set of actions that describe tasks that you can perform with this service.
To specify multiple actions in a single statement, separate them with commas as follows:
"Action": [
      "discovery:action1",
      "discovery:action2"
You can specify multiple actions using wildcards (*). For example, to specify all actions that begin with the word Describe, include the following action:
"Action": "discovery:Describe*"
To see a list of Application Discovery Service actions, see Actions Defined by AWS Application Discovery Service in the IAM User Guide.
Resources
Application Discovery Service does not support specifying resource ARNs in a policy.
Condition Keys
Application Discovery Service does not provide any service-specific condition keys, but it does support using some global condition keys. To see all AWS global condition keys, see AWS Global Condition Context Keys in the IAM User Guide.
Examples
To view examples of Application Discovery Service identity-based policies, see AWS Application Discovery Service Identity-Based Policy Examples.
Application Discovery Service Resource-Based Policies
Application Discovery Service does not support resource-based policies. 
Authorization Based on Application Discovery Service Tags
Application Discovery Service does not support tagging resources or controlling access based on tags.
Application Discovery Service IAM Roles
An IAM role is an entity within your AWS account that has specific permissions.
Using Temporary Credentials with Application Discovery Service
Application Discovery Service does not support using temporary credentials. 
Service-Linked Roles
Service-linked roles allow AWS services to access resources in other services to complete an action on your behalf. Service-linked roles appear in your IAM account and are owned by the service. An IAM administrator can view but not edit the permissions for service-linked roles.
Application Discovery Service supports service-linked roles. For details about creating or managing Application Discovery Service service-linked roles, see Using Service-Linked Roles for Application Discovery Service.
Service Roles
This feature allows a service to assume a service role on your behalf. This role allows the service to access resources in other services to complete an action on your behalf. Service roles appear in your IAM account and are owned by the account. This means that an IAM administrator can change the permissions for this role. However, doing so might break the functionality of the service.
Application Discovery Service supports service roles. 