Working with concurrency scaling
With the Concurrency Scaling feature, you can support virtually unlimited concurrent users and concurrent queries, with consistently fast query performance. When concurrency scaling is enabled, Amazon Redshift automatically adds additional cluster capacity when you need it to process an increase in concurrent read queries. Write operations continue as normal on your main cluster. Users always see the most current data, whether the queries run on the main cluster or on a concurrency scaling cluster. You're charged for concurrency scaling clusters only for the time they're in use. For more information about pricing, see Amazon Redshift pricing. You manage which queries are sent to the concurrency scaling cluster by configuring WLM queues. When you enable concurrency scaling for a queue, eligible queries are sent to the concurrency scaling cluster instead of waiting in line. 
Concurrency scaling regions
The Concurrency Scaling feature is available only in the following AWS Regions: 
 US East (N. Virginia) Region (us-east-1)
 US East (Ohio) Region (us-east-2)
 US West (N. California) Region (us-west-1)
 US West (Oregon) Region (us-west-2) 
 Asia Pacific (Mumbai) Region (ap-south-1)
 Asia Pacific (Seoul) Region (ap-northeast-2)
 Asia Pacific (Singapore) Region (ap-southeast-1)
 Asia Pacific (Sydney) Region (ap-southeast-2)
 Asia Pacific (Tokyo) Region (ap-northeast-1)
 Canada (Central) Region (ca-central-1)
 Europe (Frankfurt) Region (eu-central-1)
 Europe (Ireland) Region (eu-west-1)
 Europe (London) Region (eu-west-2)
 Europe (Paris) Region (eu-west-3)
 South America (São Paulo) Region (sa-east-1)
Concurrency scaling candidates
Queries are routed to the concurrency scaling cluster only when the main cluster meets the following requirements:
 EC2-VPC platform. 
 Node type must be dc2.8xlarge, ds2.8xlarge, dc2.large, ds2.xlarge, ra3.4xlarge, or ra3.16xlarge. 
 Maximum of 32 compute nodes for clusters with 8xlarge or 16xlarge node types. In addition, the number of nodes of the main cluster can't be larger than 32 nodes when the cluster was originally created. For example, even if a cluster currently has 20 nodes, but was originally created with 40, it does not meet the requirements for concurrency scaling. Conversely, if a cluster currently has 40 nodes, but was originally created with 20, it does meet the requirements for concurrency scaling. 
 Not a single-node cluster. 
A query must meet all the following criteria to be a candidate for concurrency scaling: 
 The query must be a read-only query. 
 The query doesn't reference tables that use an interleaved sort key. 
 The query doesn't reference user-defined temporary tables. 
Configuring concurrency scaling queues
You route queries to concurrency scaling clusters by enabling a workload manager (WLM) queue as a concurrency scaling queue. To enable concurrency scaling on a queue, set the Concurrency Scaling mode value to auto. 
When the number of queries routed to a concurrency scaling queue exceeds the queue's configured concurrency, eligible queries are sent to the concurrency scaling cluster. When slots become available, queries are run on the main cluster. The number of queues is limited only by the number of queues permitted per cluster. As with any WLM queue, you route queries to a concurrency scaling queue based on user groups or by labeling queries with query group labels. You can also route queries by defining WLM query monitoring rules. For example, you might route all queries that take longer than 5 seconds to a concurrency scaling queue. 
The default number of concurrency scaling clusters is one. The number of concurrency scaling clusters that can be used is controlled by max_concurrency_scaling_clusters. 
Monitoring concurrency scaling
You can see whether a query is running on the main cluster or a concurrency scaling cluster by viewing the Amazon Redshift console, navigating to Cluster, and choosing a cluster. Then choose the Queries tab and view the values in the column Executed on to determine the cluster where the query ran.
To find execution times, query the STL_QUERY table and filter on the concurrency_scaling_status column. The following query compares the queue time and execution time for queries run on the concurrency scaling cluster and queries run on the main cluster.
SELECT w.service_class AS queue
     , q.concurrency_scaling_status
     , COUNT( * ) AS queries
     , SUM( q.aborted )  AS aborted
     , SUM( ROUND( total_queue_time::NUMERIC / 1000000,2 ) ) AS queue_secs
     , SUM( ROUND( total_exec_time::NUMERIC / 1000000,2 ) )  AS exec_secs
FROM stl_query q
     JOIN stl_wlm_query w
          USING (userid,query)
WHERE q.userid > 1
  AND q.starttime > '2019-01-04 16:38:00'
  AND q.endtime < '2019-01-04 17:40:00'
GROUP BY 1,2
ORDER BY 1,2;
Concurrency scaling system views
A set of system views with the prefix SVCS provides details from the system log tables about queries on both the main and concurrency scaling clusters. 
The following views have similar information as the corresponding STL views or SVL views: 
 SVCS_ALERT_EVENT_LOG 
 SVCS_COMPILE 
 SVCS_EXPLAIN 
 SVCS_PLAN_INFO 
 SVCS_QUERY_SUMMARY 
 SVCS_STREAM_SEGS 
The following views are specific to concurrency scaling. 
 SVCS_CONCURRENCY_SCALING_USAGE 
For more information about concurrency scaling, see the following topics in the Amazon Redshift Cluster Management Guide.
 Viewing Concurrency Scaling Data 
 Viewing Cluster Performance During Query Execution 
 Viewing Query Details 