Step 3: Upload the files to an Amazon S3 bucket
In this step, you create an Amazon S3 bucket and upload the data files to the bucket.

To upload the files to an Amazon S3 bucket


Create a bucket in Amazon S3.


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon S3 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/.


Click Create Bucket.


In the Bucket Name box of the Create a Bucket dialog box, type a bucket name. 
The bucket name you choose must be unique among all existing bucket names in Amazon S3. One way to help ensure uniqueness is to prefix your bucket names with the name of your organization. Bucket names must comply with certain rules. For more information, go to Bucket restrictions and limitations in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide. 


Select a region. 
Create the bucket in the same region as your cluster. If your cluster is in the Oregon region, click Oregon.


Click Create. 
When Amazon S3 successfully creates your bucket, the console displays your empty bucket in the Buckets panel. 


Create a folder.


Click the name of the new bucket.


Click the Actions button, and click Create Folder in the drop-down list.


Name the new folder load.
Note
The bucket that you created is not in a sandbox. In this exercise, you add objects to a real bucket. You're charged a nominal amount for the time that you store the objects in the bucket. For more information about Amazon S3 pricing, go to the Amazon S3 pricing page.


Upload the data files to the new Amazon S3 bucket.


Click the name of the data folder.


In the Upload - Select Files wizard, click Add Files.
A file selection dialog box opens.


Select all of the files you downloaded and extracted, and then click Open.


Click Start Upload.

User Credentials
The Amazon Redshift COPY command must have access to read the file objects in the Amazon S3 bucket. If you use the same user credentials to create the Amazon S3 bucket and to run the Amazon Redshift COPY command, the COPY command has all necessary permissions. If you want to use different user credentials, you can grant access by using the Amazon S3 access controls. The Amazon Redshift COPY command requires at least ListBucket and GetObject permissions to access the file objects in the Amazon S3 bucket. For more information about controlling access to Amazon S3 resources, go to Managing access permissions to your Amazon S3 resources.


Next step
Step 4: Create the sample tables