Tutorial: Configuring manual workload management (WLM) queues
Overview
We recommend configuring automatic workload management (WLM) in Amazon Redshift. For more information about automatic WLM, see Implementing workload management. However, if you need multiple WLM queues, this tutorial walks you through the process of configuring manual workload management (WLM) in Amazon Redshift. By configuring manual WLM, you can improve query performance and resource allocation in your cluster.
Amazon Redshift routes user queries to queues for processing. WLM defines how those queries are routed to the queues. By default, Amazon Redshift has two queues available for queries: one for superusers, and one for users. The superuser queue cannot be configured and can only process one query at a time. You should reserve this queue for troubleshooting purposes only. The user queue can process up to five queries at a time, but you can configure this by changing the concurrency level of the queue if needed. 
When you have several users running queries against the database, you might find another configuration to be more efficient. For example, if some users run resource-intensive operations, such as VACUUM, these might have a negative impact on less-intensive queries, such as reports. You might consider adding additional queues and configuring them for different workloads. 
Estimated time: 75 minutes
Estimated cost: 50 cents
Prerequisites
You need an Amazon Redshift cluster, the sample TICKIT database, and the psql client tool. If you do not already have these set up, go to Amazon Redshift Getting Started and Connect to Your Cluster by Using the psql Tool. 
Sections

Section 1: Understanding the default queue processing behavior
Section 2: Modifying the WLM query queue configuration
Section 3: Routing queries to queues based on user groups and query groups
Section 4: Using wlm_query_slot_count to temporarily override the concurrency level in a queue
Section 5: Cleaning up your resources
