Creating Automation documents using Document Builder
If the AWS Systems Manager public Automation documents don't support all the actions you want to perform on your AWS resources, you can create your own documents. To create a custom Automation document, you can manually create a local JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) or YAML format file with the appropriate automation actions. Alternatively, you can use the Document Builder in the Systems Manager console to more easily build a custom document.
Using the Document Builder, you can add Automation action steps to your custom document and provide the required parameters without having to use JSON or YAML syntax. After you add steps and create the document, the system converts the actions you've added into the YAML format that Systems Manager can use to run automation workflows.
Automation documents support the use of Markdown, a markup language, which allows you to add wiki-style descriptions to documents and individual steps within the document. For more information on using Markdown, see Using Markdown in AWS.
Tip
This topic provides general information for using Document Builder with any supported action type. For more information about creating Automation documents that run scripts, see the following topics:
Creating Automation documents that run scripts – Provides information for using Document Builder to create an Automation document that includes the aws:executeScript action.
Creating an Automation document that runs scripts (command line) – Provides information for using a command line tool to create an Automation document that runs a script.
 Walkthrough: Using Document Builder to create a custom Automation document – Provides step-by-step guidance for creating an Automation document that runs scripts to (1) launch an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) instance and (2) wait for the instance status to change to ok.
Before You Begin
Before you create a custom Automation document using Document Builder, we recommend that you read about the different actions that you can use within an Automation document. For more information see, Systems Manager Automation actions reference.
To create an Automation document using Document Builder


Open the AWS Systems Manager console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/.


In the navigation pane, choose Documents.


-or-
If the AWS Systems Manager home page opens first, choose the menu icon () to open the navigation pane, and then choose Documents in the navigation pane.


Choose Create automation.


For Name, type a descriptive name for the document.


For Document description, provide the markdown style description for the document. You can provide instructions for using the document, numbered steps, or any other type of information to describe the document. Refer to the default text for information about formatting your content.
Tip
Toggle between Hide preview and Show preview to see what your description content looks like as you compose.


(Optional) For Assume role, enter the name or ARN of a service role to perform actions on your behalf. If you don't specify a role, Automation uses the access permissions of the user who invokes the automation execution.
Important
For Automation documents not owned by Amazon that use the aws:executeScript action, a role must be specified. For information, see Permissions for running Automation executions.


(Optional) For Outputs, enter any outputs for the execution of this document to make available for other processes. 


For example, if your document creates a new AMI, you might specify ["CreateImage.ImageId"], and then use this output to create new instances in a subsequent automation execution.


(Optional) Expand the Input parameters section and do the following.


For Parameter name, enter a descriptive name for the document parameter you are creating.


For Type, choose a type for the parameter, such as String or MapList.


For Required, do one of the following: 

Choose Yes if a value for this document parameter must be supplied at runtime.
Choose No if the parameter is not required, and (optional) enter a default parameter value in Default value.



For Description, enter a description for the document parameter.
Note
To add more document parameters, choose Add a parameter. To remove a document parameter, choose the X (Remove) button.


(Optional) Expand the Target type section and choose a target type to define the kinds of resources the document can run on. For example, to run a document on EC2 instances, choose /AWS::EC2::Instance.
Note
If you specify a value of '/', the document can run on all types of resources. For a list of valid resource types, see AWS Resource Types Reference in the AWS CloudFormation User Guide.


(Optional) Expand the Document tags section and enter one or more tag key-value pairs to apply to the document. Tags make it easier to identify, organize, and search for resources. For more information, see Tagging Systems Manager documents.


In the Step 1 section, provide the following information.
    For Step name, enter a descriptive name for the first step of the automation workflow.
    For Action type, select the action type to use for this step.
For a list and information about the available action types, see Systems Manager Automation actions reference.
    For Description, enter a description for the automation step. You can use Markdown to format your text.
    Depending on the Action type selected, enter the required inputs for the action type in the Step inputs section. For example, if you selected the action aws:approve, you must specify a value for the Approvers property.
For information about the step input fields, see the entry in Systems Manager Automation actions reference for the action type you selected. For example: aws:executeStateMachine – Run an AWS Step Functions state machine.
    (Optional) For Additional inputs, provide any additional input values needed for your document. The available input types depend on the action type you selected for the step. (Note that some action types require input values.)
Note
To add more inputs, choose Add optional input. To remove an input, choose the X (Remove) button.
    (Optional) For Outputs, enter any outputs for the execution of this step to make available for other processes.
Note
Outputs isn't available for all action types.
    (Optional) Expand the Common properties section and specify properties for the actions that are common to all Automation actions. For example, for Timeout seconds, you can provide a value in seconds to specify how long the step can run before it is stopped.
For more information, see Properties shared by all actions.
Note
To add more document steps, select Add step and repeat the procedure for creating a step. To remove a document step, choose Remove step.


Choose Create automation to save the document.

