AWS Systems Manager State Manager
Note
State Manager and Maintenance Windows can perform some similar types of updates on your managed instances. Which one you choose depends on whether you need to automate system compliance or perform high-priority, time-sensitive tasks only during periods you specify.
For more information, see Choosing between State Manager and Maintenance Windows.
AWS Systems Manager State Manager is a secure and scalable configuration management service that automates the process of keeping your Amazon EC2 and hybrid infrastructure in a state that you define.
The following list describes the types of tasks you can perform with State Manager.
 Bootstrap instances with specific software at start-up
 Download and update agents on a defined schedule, including SSM Agent
 Configure network settings
 Join instances to a Windows domain (Windows Server instances only).
 Patch instances with software updates throughout their lifecycle
 Run scripts on Linux and Windows managed instances throughout their lifecycle
State Manager integrates with AWS CloudTrail to provide a record of all executions that you can audit, and Amazon EventBridge to track state changes. You can also choose to store and view detailed command output in Amazon S3. For more information, see the following topics:
 Logging AWS Systems Manager API calls with AWS CloudTrail
 Monitoring Systems Manager events with Amazon EventBridge
 (Optional) Set Up integrations with other AWS services
Amazon EventBridge support
This Systems Manager capability is supported as an event type in EventBridge rules. For information, see Monitoring Systems Manager events with Amazon EventBridge and Reference: Amazon EventBridge event patterns and types for Systems Manager.
Getting started with State Manager
Complete the following tasks to get started with State Manager.




Task
For More Information




Verify Systems Manager prerequisites
Systems Manager prerequisites


Learn more about State Manager
About State Manager


Create and assign a State Manager association to your instances
Create an association



Related content
 Combating Configuration Drift Using Amazon EC2 Systems Manager and Windows PowerShell DSC
 Configure Amazon EC2 Instances in an Auto Scaling Group Using State Manager
Topics
 About State Manager
 Working with associations in Systems Manager
 AWS Systems Manager State Manager walkthroughs