AWS Direct Connect connections
AWS Direct Connect enables you to establish a dedicated network connection between your network and one of the AWS Direct Connect locations.
There are two types of connections:
 Dedicated Connection: A physical Ethernet connection associated with a single customer. Customers can request a dedicated connection through the AWS Direct Connect console, the CLI, or the API.
 Hosted Connection: A physical Ethernet connection that an AWS Direct Connect Partner provisions on behalf of a customer. Customers request a hosted connection by contacting a partner in the AWS Direct Connect Partner Program, who provisions the connection. 
Dedicated connections
To create an AWS Direct Connect dedicated connection, you need the following information:
AWS Direct Connect location
Work with a partner in the AWS Direct Connect Partner Program to help you establish network circuits between an AWS Direct Connect location and your data center, office, or colocation environment. They can also help provide colocation space within the same facility as the location. For more information, see APN Partners Supporting AWS Direct Connect.
Port speed
The possible values are 1Gbps and 10Gbps. 
You cannot change the port speed after you create the connection request. To change the port speed, you must create and configure a new connection.
After you request the connection, AWS makes a Letter of Authorization and Connecting Facility Assignment (LOA-CFA) available to you to download, or emails you with a request for more information. If you receive a request for more information, you must respond within 7 days or the connection is deleted. The LOA-CFA is the authorization to connect to AWS, and is required by your network provider to order a cross connect for you. If you do not have equipment in the AWS Direct Connect location, you cannot order a cross connect for yourself there. 
The following operations are available for dedicated connections:
 Creating a connection
 Viewing connection details
 Updating a connection
 Deleting connections
You can add a dedicated connection to a link aggregation group (LAG) allowing you to treat multiple connections as a single one. For information, see Associating a connection with a LAG.
After you create a connection, create a virtual interface to connect to public and private AWS resources. For more information, see AWS Direct Connect virtual interfaces.
Hosted connections
To create an AWS Direct Connect hosted connection, you need the following information:
AWS Direct Connect location
Work with an AWS Direct Connect Partner in the AWS Direct Connect Partner Program to help you establish network circuits between an AWS Direct Connect location and your data center, office, or colocation environment. They can also help provide colocation space within the same facility as the location. For more information, see APN Partners Supporting AWS Direct Connect.
Port speed
For hosted connections, the possible values are 50Mbps, 100Mbps, 200Mbps, 300Mbps, 400Mbps, 500Mbps, 1Gbps, 2Gbps, 5Gbps, and 10Gbps. Note that only those AWS Direct Connect partners who have met specific requirements may create a 1Gbps, 2Gbps, 5Gbps or 10Gbps hosted connection.
You cannot change the port speed after you create the connection request. To change the port speed, you must create and configure a new connection.
AWS uses traffic policing on hosted connections, which means that when the traffic rate reaches the configured maximum rate, excess traffic is dropped. This might result in bursty traffic having a lower throughput than non-bursty traffic.
The following operations are available for hosted connections:
 Creating a connection
After the AWS Direct Connect Partner configures the connection, it appears in the Connections pane in the AWS Direct Connect console. You must accept the hosted connection before you can use it. For more information, see Accepting a hosted connection.
 Viewing connection details
 Updating a connection
 Deleting connections
After you accept a connection, create a virtual interface to connect to public and private AWS resources. For more information, see AWS Direct Connect virtual interfaces.