Registering a new domain
When you want to register a new domain using the Amazon Route 53 console, perform the following procedure.
Note the following:
Contacting AWS Support
If you encounter issues while registering a domain, you can contact AWS Support for free. For more information, see Contacting AWS Support about domain registration issues.
Domain registration pricing
For information about the cost to register domains, see Amazon Route 53 Pricing for Domain Registration.
Supported domains
For a list of supported TLDs, see Domains that you can register with Amazon Route 53.
You can't change a domain name after you register it
If you accidentally register the wrong domain name, you can't change it. Instead, you need to register another domain name and specify the correct name. You also can't get a refund for a domain name that you registered accidentally. 
AWS credits
You can't use AWS credits to pay the fee for registering a new domain with Route 53.
Special or premium prices
TLD registries have assigned special or premium prices to some domain names. You can't use Route 53 to register a domain that has a special or premium price.
Charges for hosted zones
When you register a domain with Route 53, we automatically create a hosted zone for the domain and charge a small monthly fee for the hosted zone in addition to the annual charge for the domain registration. This hosted zone is where you store information about how to route traffic for your domain, for example, to an Amazon EC2 instance or a CloudFront distribution. If you don't want to use your domain right now, you can delete the hosted zone; if you delete it within 12 hours of registering the domain, there won't be any charge for the hosted zone on your AWS bill. We also charge a small fee for the DNS queries that we receive for your domain. For more information, see Amazon Route 53 Pricing.
To register a new domain using Route 53


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Route 53 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/route53/.


If you're new to Route 53, under Domain Registration, choose Get Started Now.


If you're already using Route 53, in the navigation pane, choose Registered Domains.


Choose Register Domain, and specify the domain that you want to register:


Enter the domain name that you want to register, and choose Check to find out whether the domain name is available.
If the domain name that you want to register contains characters other than a-z, A-Z, 0-9, and - (hyphen), note the following:
   You can enter the name using the applicable characters. You don't need to convert the name to Punycode.
   A list of languages appears. Choose the language of the specified name. For example, if you enter příklad ("example" in Czech), choose Czech (CES) or Czech (CZE). 
Note
For languages that have more than one code, you might need to try both of them. Even though CES and CZE are synonymous, some TLD registries support only one or the other.


If the domain is available, choose Add to cart. The domain name appears in your shopping cart. 
The Related domain suggestions list shows other domains that you might want to register instead of your first choice (if it's not available) or in addition to your first choice. Choose Add to cart for each additional domain that you want to register, up to a maximum of five domains.


In the shopping cart, choose the number of years that you want to register the domain for.


To register more domains, repeat steps 3a through 3c.


Choose Continue.


On the Contact Details for Your n Domains page, enter contact information for the domain registrant, administrator, and technical contacts. The values that you enter here are applied to all of the domains that you're registering. For more information, see Values that you specify when you register or transfer a domain.


Note the following considerations:
First Name and Last Name
For First Name and Last Name, we recommend that you specify the name on your official ID. For some changes to domain settings, some domain registries require that you provide proof of identity. The name on your ID must match the name of the registrant contact for the domain.
Different contacts
By default, we use the same information for all three contacts. If you want to enter different information for one or more contacts, change the value of My Registrant, Administrative, and Technical Contacts are all the same to No.
For .it domains, the registrant and administrative contacts must be the same.
Multiple domains
If you're registering more than one domain, we use the same contact information for all of the domains. 
Additional required information
For some top-level domains (TLDs), we're required to collect additional information. For these TLDs, enter the applicable values after the Postal/Zip Code field.
Privacy protection
Choose whether you want to hide your contact information from WHOIS queries. 
You must specify the same privacy setting for the administrative, registrant, and technical contacts.
For more information, see the following topics:
    Enabling or disabling privacy protection for contact information for a domain
    Domains that you can register with Amazon Route 53
To enable privacy protection for .co.uk, .me.uk, and .org.uk domains, you must open a support case and request privacy protection. 


Choose Continue.


Some TLDs only – If you specified an email address for the registrant contact that has never been used to register a domain with Route 53, some TLD registries require you to verify that the address is valid.


If the registry requires verification and if it's possible to verify the address during domain registration, the console displays a Verify the Email Address for the Registrant Contact section:
    If the section doesn't appear, skip to step 8.
    If the section appears and the status is email-address is verified, skip to step 8.
    If the section appears and the value is Registrant email not verified, continue with this step.
Perform the following steps:


Choose Send verification email. We send a verification email from one of the following email addresses:

noreply@registrar.amazon.com – for TLDs registered by Amazon Registrar.
noreply@domainnameverification.net – for TLDs registered by our registrar associate, Gandi. To determine who the registrar is for your TLD, see Domains that you can register with Amazon Route 53.
Important
The registrant contact must follow the instructions in the email to verify that the email was received, or we must suspend the domain as required by ICANN. When a domain is suspended, it's not accessible on the internet.



When you receive the verification email, choose the link in the email that verifies that the email address is valid. If you don't receive the email immediately, check your junk email folder.


Return to the Route 53 console. If the status doesn't automatically update to say email-address is verified, choose Refresh status.


Choose whether you want us to automatically renew your domain registration before the expiration date.
Note
Domain name registrations and renewals are not refundable. If you enable automatic domain renewal and you decide that you don't want the domain name after we renew the registration, you can't get a refund for the cost of the renewal.


Review the information that you entered, read the terms of service, and select the check box to confirm that you've read the terms of service. 


Choose Complete Purchase.


AISPL (India) customers only: If your contact address is in India, your user agreement is with Amazon Internet Services Pvt. Ltd (AISPL), a local AWS seller in India. To register a domain with Route 53, perform the following steps to pay the fee for registering your domain. 


Go to the Orders and Invoices page in the AWS Management Console.


In the Payments Due section, find the applicable invoice.


In the Actions column, choose Verify and Pay.
After you pay the invoice, we complete the domain registration and send the applicable emails.
Important
If you don't pay the invoice within five days, the invoice is canceled. To register a domain after an invoice is canceled, resubmit the request.


For more information, see Managing your payments in India in the AWS Billing and Cost Management User Guide.

Generic TLDs only – Verify that the email address for the registrant contact is valid.
Note
If you were able to verify your email address in step 7, skip to step 13.

If the registry requires us to verify the email address for the registrant contact but doesn't allow us to verify earlier in the process, we send a verification email from one of the following email addresses: 
    noreply@registrar.amazon.com  – for TLDs registered by Amazon Registrar.
    noreply@domainnameverification.net – for TLDs registered by our registrar associate, Gandi. To determine who the registrar is for your TLD, see Domains that you can register with Amazon Route 53.
When you receive the verification email, choose the link in the email that verifies that the email address is valid. If you don't receive the email immediately:
    Check the settings for the domain to verify that you specified the correct email address for the registrant contact.
    Check your junk email folder.
Important
The registrant contact must follow the instructions in the email to confirm that the email was received, or we must suspend the domain as required by ICANN. When a domain is suspended, it's not accessible on the internet.

For all TLDs, you'll receive an email when your domain registration has been approved.

To determine the current status of your request, see Viewing the status of a domain registration.


(Optional) The domain registries for all generic TLDs and many geographic TLDs let you lock a domain to prevent someone from transferring the domain to another registrar without your permission. To determine whether the registry for your domain lets you lock the domain, see Domains that you can register with Amazon Route 53. If locking is supported and you want to lock your domain, see Locking a domain to prevent unauthorized transfer to another registrar.


When domain registration is complete, your next step depends on whether you want to use Route 53 or another DNS service as the DNS service for the domain:
    Route 53 – In the hosted zone that Route 53 created when you registered the domain, create records to tell Route 53 how you want to route traffic for the domain and subdomains. 
For example, when someone enters your domain name in a browser and that query is forwarded to Route 53, do you want Route 53 to respond to the query with the IP address of a web server in your data center or with the name of an ELB load balancer?
For more information, see Working with records.
Important
If you create records in a hosted zone other than the one that Route 53 creates automatically, you must update the name servers for the domain to use the name servers for the new hosted zone.
    Another DNS service – Configure your new domain to route DNS queries to the other DNS service. Perform the procedure To update the name servers for your domain when you want to use another DNS service.


To update the name servers for your domain when you want to use another DNS service


Use the process that is provided by your DNS service to get the name servers for the domain.


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Route 53 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/route53/.


In the navigation pane, choose Registered Domains.


Choose the name of the domain that you want to configure to use another DNS service.


Choose Add/Edit Name Servers.


Change the names of the name servers to the name servers that you got from your DNS service in step 1.


Choose Update.


(Optional) Delete the hosted zone that Route 53 created automatically when you registered your domain. This prevents you from being charged for a hosted zone that you aren't using.


In the navigation pane, choose Hosted Zones.


Select the radio button for the hosted zone that has the same name as your domain.


Choose Delete Hosted Zone.


Choose Confirm to confirm that you want to delete the hosted zone.

