Creating a private hosted zone
A private hosted zone is a container for records for a domain that you host in one or more Amazon virtual private clouds (VPCs). You create a hosted zone for a domain (such as example.com), and then you create records to tell Amazon Route 53 how you want traffic to be routed for that domain within and among your VPCs.
Important
When you create a private hosted zone, you must associate a VPC with the hosted zone, and the VPC that you specify must have been created by using the same account that you're using to create the hosted zone. After you create the hosted zone, you can associate additional VPCs with it, including VPCs that you created by using a different AWS account.
To associate VPCs that you created by using one account with a private hosted zone that you created by using a different account, you must authorize the association and then make the association programmatically. For more information, see Associating an Amazon VPC and a private hosted zone that you created with different AWS accounts.
For information about creating a private hosted zone by using the Route 53 API, see the Amazon Route 53 API Reference.
To create a private hosted zone using the Route 53 console

For each VPC that you want to associate with the Route 53 hosted zone, change the following VPC settings to true:
    enableDnsHostnames
    enableDnsSupport

For more information, see Updating DNS support for your VPC in the Amazon VPC User Guide.


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Route 53 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/route53/.


If you're new to Route 53, choose Get Started Now under DNS Management.


If you're already using Route 53, choose Hosted Zones in the navigation pane.


Choose Create Hosted Zone.


In the Create Private Hosted Zone pane, enter a domain name and, optionally, a comment.


For information about how to specify characters other than a-z, 0-9, and - (hyphen) and how to specify internationalized domain names, see DNS domain name format.


In the Type list, choose Private Hosted Zone for Amazon VPC.


In the VPC ID list, choose the VPC that you want to associate with the hosted zone.


If you want to associate more than one VPC with the hosted zone, you can add VPCs after you create the hosted zone.
Note
If the console displays the following message, you're trying to associate a VPC with this hosted zone that has already been associated with another hosted zone that has an overlapping name space, such as example.com and retail.example.com:
"A conflicting domain is already associated with the given VPC or Delegation Set."


Choose Create.


To associate more VPCs with the new hosted zone, perform the following steps:


Choose Back to Hosted Zones.


Choose the radio button for the hosted zone.


In the right pane, in VPC ID, choose another VPC that you want to associate with the hosted zone.


Choose Associate New VPC.


Repeat steps c and d until you have associated all of the VPCs that you want to with the hosted zone.

