Tagging Amazon Route 53 resources
A tag is a label that you assign to an AWS resource. Each tag consists of a key and a value, both of which you define. For example, the key might be "domain" and the value might be "example.com". You can use tags for a variety of purposes; one common use is to categorize and track your Amazon Route 53 costs. When you apply tags to Route 53 hosted zones, domains, and health checks, AWS generates a cost allocation report as a comma-separated value (CSV) file with your usage and costs aggregated by your tags. You can apply tags that represent business categories (such as cost centers, application names, or owners) to organize your costs across multiple services. For more information about using tags for cost allocation, see Using cost allocation tags in the AWS Billing and Cost Management User Guide.
For ease of use and best results, use Tag Editor in the AWS Management Console, which provides a central, unified way to create and manage your tags. For more information, see Working with Tag Editor in Getting Started with the AWS Management Console. You can also use the Route 53 console to apply tags for some resources:
 Health checks – For more information, see Naming and tagging health checks.
 Route 53 Resolver inbound endpoints – For more information, see Values that you specify when you create or edit inbound endpoints.
 Resolver outbound endpoints – For more information, see Values that you specify when you create or edit outbound endpoints.
 Resolver rules – For more information, see Values that you specify when you create or edit rules.
Note
Charges for Resolver are based in part on VPC elastic network interfaces, which correspond with the IP addresses that you specify for inbound and outbound endpoints. You can't currently tag elastic network interfaces that are created by Resolver, so you can't use tags for allocating costs for Resolver. For information about pricing for Resolver, see Amazon Route 53 pricing.
You can also apply tags to resources by using the Route 53 API. For more information, see the actions related to tags in the topic Route 53 API actions by function in the Amazon Route 53 API Reference.