Creating a Workflow
This section describes how to create an AWS RoboMaker workflow for an existing application. 
A workflow is a collection of tasks that will be run sequentially in order. Tasks include building an application, bundling an application, and creating a simulation job. Workflows and tasks are created in the AWS RoboMaker AWS Cloud9 development environment. Workflows can be selected and run from AWS RoboMaker Run menu.
Workflows are useful for performing repetitive tasks during iterative development. In this section, you create a workflow that performs the following tasks: 
 Build a robot application and simulation application with colcon. 
 Bundle a robot application and simulation application with colcon. 
 Create a simulation job. 
Topics
 Prerequisites
 Create Source and Output Amazon S3 Buckets
 Create a Simulation Job Role
 Create Application Build Configurations
 Create Application Bundle Configurations
 Create a Simulation Configuration
 Create a Workflow Configuration
Prerequisites
To create an AWS RoboMaker simulation job from the command line, you need the following:
 A AWS RoboMaker development environment. For more information about creating a development environment, see Creating a Development Environment. 
 A robot application and a simulation application. To create a simple robotics application and simulation application from scratch, see Creating a New Robotic Application. 
Optionally, you can use the the AWS RoboMaker console for easy access to simulation tools like Gazebo, rqt, rviz and terminal. These tools are available on the Simulation Job Detail page. 
Create Source and Output Amazon S3 Buckets
Before you create a simulation job, you need to create a bucket to use as source location for your applications. To create your buckets, follow the steps in Create Source and Output Amazon S3 Buckets. 
Create a Simulation Job Role
A simulation job requires an IAM role with access to resources like source Amazon S3 buckets and Amazon CloudWatch Logs. To create a simulation job role, follow the steps in Create a Simulation Job Role. 
Create Application Build Configurations
AWS RoboMaker uses colcon to build robot applications and simulation applications. 
To create robot application and simulation application build configurations


Open your AWS RoboMaker development environment containing your robotic application. 


In the AWS Cloud9 menu, choose RoboMaker Run, then choose Build, and then select Add or Edit Configurations. 


In the RoboMaker Configuration dialog, under Create New Configuration, select Colcon build. 


In the RoboMaker Configuration dialog, under Colcon Build Configuration, provide a name for the robot application build configuration. For example, MyRobot v3 build, bundle, and create simulation. 


Type in the path to the robot application working directory. You can also select ... to use the file picker to select the working directory. The working directory will contain CMakeLists.txt. 


Repeate the steps to create a simulation application build configuration. Set the Working directory to the simulation application work space. 


To start a build, choose RoboMaker Run, then choose Build, and then select a build configuration. A new terminal window will open at the bottom of the IDE. Use it to track build progress. 


Create Application Bundle Configurations
AWS RoboMaker uses colcon to bundle robot applications and simulation applications. 
To create robot application and simulation application build configurations


Open your AWS RoboMaker development environment containing your robotic application. 


In the AWS Cloud9 menu, choose RoboMaker Run, then choose Bundle, and then select Add or Edit Configurations. 


Under Create New Configuration, select Colcon bundle. 


In the RoboMaker Configuration dialog, under Colcon Bundle Configuration, provide a name for the robot application bundle configuration. 


Type in the path to the robot application working directory. You can also select ... to use the file picker to select the working directory. The working directory will contain CMakeLists.txt. For example, ./MySample/robot_ws. 


Repeate the steps to create a simulation application bundle configuration. Set the Working directory to the simulation application work space. 


To start a bundle process, choose RoboMaker Run, then choose Bundle, and then select a bundle configuration. A new terminal window will open at the bottom of the IDE. Use it to track bundle progress. You must build the application before it can be bundled. 


Create a Simulation Configuration
To create a simulation configuration


Open your AWS RoboMaker development environment containing your robotic application. 


In the AWS Cloud9 menu, choose RoboMaker Run, then choose Launch Simulation, and then select Add or Edit Configurations. 


Under Create New Configuration, select Simulation. 


In the RoboMaker Configuration dialog, under Simulation Configuration, provide a name for the robot application bundle configuration. 


Provide a Simulation job duration in seconds. For example, to run the simulation job for an hour, type in 3600.


In Failure behavior, select fail. 


Select the IAM role you created for the simulation job. 


Select an optional Amazon S3 bucket for simulation job output. 


Under Robot application, provide a robot application name. 


Specify the Robot app bundle path. This is the path to the file created by the bundle process for the robot application. For example, ./MySample/robot_ws/output.tar. Optionally, select .. to locate the file. 


For Architecture, select X86_64


Select the Amazon S3 bucket to use for the robot application source. The bundle will be uploaded this location with a prefix created from the path to the bundle file. For example, if your application bundle is ./MySample/robot_ws/output.tar, the filename will be output.tar and the prefix will be ./MySample/robot_ws/. 


Specify the Launch package name and Launch file. If you are using the example project from Creating a New Robotic Application, the launch package name is robot_app and the launch file is rotate.launch. 


Under Simulation application, type in a simulation application name. 


Specify the Sim app bundle path. This is the path to the file created by the bundle process for the simulation application. For example, ./MySample/simulation_ws/output.tar. Optionally, select .. to locate the file. 


Select the Amazon S3 bucket to use for the simulation application source. The bundle will be uploaded this location with a prefix created from the path to the bundle file. 


Specify the Launch package name and Launch file. If you are using the example project from Creating a New Robotic Application, the launch package name is simulation_app and the launch file is example.launch. 


Select Save to save the configuration.


To start a simulation job, choose RoboMaker Run, then choose Launch Simulation, and then select a simulation configuration. 


Create a Workflow Configuration
To create a workflow configuration


Open your AWS RoboMaker development environment containing your robotic application. 


In the AWS Cloud9 menu, choose RoboMaker Run, then choose Workflow, and then select Add or Edit Configurations. 


Under Create New Configuration, select Workflow. 


In the RoboMaker Configuration dialog, under Colcon Bundle Configuration, provide a name for the workflow configuration. 


For Action 1, select the colcon build step for your robot application. 


Select add action, then select select the colcon build step for your simulation application as the action. 


Select add action, then select select the colcon bundle step for your robot application as the action. 


Select add action, then select select the colcon bundle step for your simulation application as the action. 


Select add action, then select select the simulation step for your applicatio as the action. 


Choose save.


To run a workflow, choose RoboMaker Run, then choose Workflow, and then select a workflow configuration. Use the terminal window to track workflow progress. 


Use Gazebo and other simulation tools to connect to the running simulation job and explore sensor data and other information. You can find the tools in the RoboMaker Simulation menu under Applications. 