Changing the NICE DCV Server TCP Port
By default, the NICE DCV server is configured to communicate over port 8443. You can specify a custom TCP port after you have installed the NICE DCV server. The port must be higher than 1024.
To allow NICE DCV clients to access your NICE DCV server over the standard HTTPS port (443), we recommend that you use a web proxy or load balancer as a frontend gateway to redirect client connections to the server.
Ensure that you communicate any port changes to your clients. They need the port number to connect to sessions.
Topics
 Changing the Server TCP Port on Windows
 Changing the Server TCP Port on Linux
Changing the NICE DCV Server TCP Port on Windows
To change the port used by the NICE DCV server, you must configure the web-port parameter using the Windows Registry Editor.
To change the server's TCP port on Windows


Open the Windows Registry Editor.


Navigate to the HKEY_USERS/S-1-5-18/Software/GSettings/com/nicesoftware/dcv/connectivity/ key and select the web-port parameter.


If there is no web-port parameter in the registry key, create one:


In the left pane, open the context (right-click) menu for the connectivity key and choose New, DWORD (32-bit) value.


For Name, enter web-port and press Enter.


Open the web-port parameter. For Value data, enter the new TCP port number.
Note
The TCP port number must be higher than 1024.


Choose OK and close the Windows Registry Editor.


Stop and restart the NICE DCV server.


Changing the NICE DCV Server TCP Port on Linux
To change the port used by the NICE DCV server, you must configure the web-port parameter in the dcv.conf file.
To change the server's TCP port on Linux


Navigate to /etc/dcv/ and open the dcv.conf with your preferred text editor.


Locate the web-port parameter in the [connectivity] section and replace the existing TCP port number with the new TCP port number.


If there is no web-port parameter in the [connectivity] section, add it manually using the following format:
[connectivity]
   web-port=port_number
Note
The TCP port number must be higher than 1024.


Save and close the file.


Stop and restart the NICE DCV server.

