Starting NICE DCV Sessions
By default, a console session is automatically created on Windows NICE DCV servers after installation. The default console session is owned by Administrator and has a default session ID of console. If you chose to prevent the automatic console session when you installed the NICE DCV server, you must create one manually. You can enable or disable the automatic console session at any time after you install the NICE DCV server.
Note
Linux NICE DCV servers do not get a default console after installation.
If you are using a floating license on an on-premises or alternative cloud-based server and you exceed the maximum number of concurrent sessions supported by your license, you might get a no licenses error. If you get this error, stop an unused session to release the license and try again.
The NICE DCV server must be running to start a session. For more information, see Starting the NICE DCV Server.
Contents
 Manually Starting Console and Virtual Sessions
   Examples
 Enabling Automatic Console Sessions
Manually Starting Console and Virtual Sessions
You can start a NICE DCV session at any time. You can only run one console session at a time. If you are using a Linux NICE DCV server, you can run multiple virtual sessions simultaneously.
To create a console or virtual session on a Windows or Linux NICE DCV server
Use the dcv create-session command and specify the session type and a unique session ID.
The following options can be used with the dcv create-session command:
--type=console|virtual
This option is supported on Linux NICE DCV servers only. It specifies the type of session to be created and can be either console or virtual.
--name
Specifies a name for the session. Session names can be any string of up to 256 characters. If the string exceeds 256 characters, the command fails. Session names don't need to be unique across running sessions.
You can change a session's name at any time using the dcv set-name command. For more information, see Managing the Session Name.
--user
This option is supported with virtual sessions on Linux NICE DCV sessions only. This value is the user to be used to create the session. Only the root user can impersonate other users.
--owner
Specifies the session owner. Defaults to the currently signed in user if omitted.
--permissions-file
Specifies a path to a custom permissions file. Defaults to the server defaults if omitted.
--storage-root
Specifies the path to the folder used for session storage.
You can use %home% to specify the home directory of the user who is currently signed in. For example, the following sets the directory for session storage as c:\Users\username\storage\ for Windows servers or $HOME/storage/ for Linux servers.  
--storage-root %home%/storage/
If a specified subdirectory does not exist, session storage is disabled.
--gl
This option is supported with virtual sessions on Linux NICE DCV sessions only. It overrides the default dcv-gl state and can be either on or off.
--max-concurrent-clients
Specifies the maximum number of NICE DCV clients that are allowed to connect to the session. Defaults to unlimited connections if omitted.
--init
This option is supported with virtual sessions on Linux NICE DCV servers only. It specifies the path to a custom init script. The script can be used to start a specific desktop environment and launch specific applications automatically when the session starts. The script must be executable. Defaults to a script that starts the default desktop environment if omitted.
Examples
Example 1 - Console session
The following command creates a console session owned by dcv-user with a unique session ID of my-session, and a session name of my graphics session. It also specifies a permissions file named perm-file.txt.
 Windows NICE DCV server
C:\> dcv create-session --owner dcv-user --name "my graphics session" --permissions-file perm-file.txt my-session
 Linux NICE DCV server
$ sudo dcv create-session --type=console --owner dcv-user --name "my graphics session" --permissions-file perm-file.txt my-session
Example 2 - Virtual Session (Linux NICE DCV servers only)
The following command creates a virtual session using the root user to impersonate the intended session owner, dcv-user. The session is owned by dcv-user even though it is created by the root user.
$ sudo dcv create-session --owner dcv-user --user dcv-user my-session
Example 3 - Virtual Session (Linux NICE DCV servers only)
The following command creates a virtual session owned by the user who creates it:
$ dcv create-session my-session
Enabling Automatic Console Sessions
Enabling an automatic console session ensures that a console session is automatically created each time that the NICE DCV server starts. The automatic console session is owned by the NICE DCV user specified by the owner configuration parameter. Its session ID is always console.
Other parameters affecting automatic console sessions are max-concurrent-clients, permissions-file, and storage-root. For more information about these parameters, see session-management/automatic-console-session Parameters.
Note
NICE DCV does not support automatic virtual sessions.
To enable an automatic console session on a Windows NICE DCV server


Open the Windows Registry Editor.


Navigate to the HKEY_USERS/S-1-5-18/Software/GSettings/com/nicesoftware/dcv/session-management key.


Create a create-session parameter:


In the left pane, open the context (right-click) menu for the session-management key and choose New, DWORD (32-bit) Value.


For Name, enter create-session and press Enter.


Open the create-session parameter. For Value data, enter 1, and choose OK.


Navigate to the HKEY_USERS/S-1-5-18/Software/GSettings/com/nicesoftware/dcv/session-management/automatic-console-session key.


Create an owner parameter:


In the left pane, open the context (right-click) menu for the automatic-console-session key and choose New, String Value.


For Name, enter owner and press Enter.


Open the owner parameter. For Value data, enter the session owner's name and choose OK.


Choose OK and close the Windows Registry Editor.


Stop and restart the NICE DCV server.


To enable an automatic console session on a Linux NICE DCV server


Navigate to /etc/dcv/ and open the dcv.conf with your preferred text editor.


Add the create-session and owner parameters to the [session-management/automatic-console-session] section using the following format:


```
   [session-management]
   create-session = true
[session-management/automatic-console-session]
   owner="session-owner"
   ```


Save and close the file.


Stop and restart the NICE DCV server.

