Installing the amazon-efs-utils Package on Other Linux Distributions
If you don't want to get the amazon-efs-utils package from Amazon Linux or Amazon Linux 2 AMIs, the amazon-efs-utils package is also available on GitHub.
After you clone the package, you can build and install amazon-efs-utils using one of the following methods, depending on the package type supported by your Linux distribution:
 RPM – This package type is supported by Amazon Linux, Red Hat Linux, CentOS, and similar.
 DEB – This package type is supported by Ubuntu, Debian, and similar.
To clone amazon-efs-utils from GitHub


Make sure that you've created an Amazon EC2 instance of the supported AMI type. For more information on how to do this, see Step 1: Launch an Instance in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances.


Access the terminal for your instance through Secure Shell (SSH), and log in with the appropriate user name. For more information on how to do this, see Connecting to Your Linux Instance Using SSH in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances.


If you haven't done so already, install git with the following commands.


sudo yum -y install git

From the terminal, clone the amazon-efs-utils tool from GitHub to a directory of your choice, with the following command.

git clone https://github.com/aws/efs-utils
Because you need the bash command make, you can install it with the following command if your operating system doesn't already have it.
sudo yum -y install make
To build and install amazon-efs-utils as an RPM package


Open a terminal on your client and navigate to the directory that has the cloned amazon-efs-utils package from GitHub (for example "/home/centos/efs-utils").


If you haven't done so already, install the rpm-builder package with the following command.


sudo yum -y install rpm-build

Build the package with the following command.

sudo make rpm

Install the amazon-efs-utils package with the following command.

sudo yum -y install ./build/amazon-efs-utils*rpm
To build and install amazon-efs-utils as a DEB package


Open a terminal on your client and navigate to the directory that has the cloned amazon-efs-utils package from GitHub.


Install the binutils package, a dependency for building DEB packages.


sudo apt-get -y install binutils

Build the package with the following command.

./build-deb.sh

Install the package with the following command.

sudo apt-get -y install ./build/amazon-efs-utils*deb