Managing Amazon EFS file system costs using AWS Budgets
You can plan and manage your Amazon EFS file system costs by using AWS Budgets.
You can work with AWS Budgets from the AWS Billing and Cost Management console. To use AWS Budgets, you create a monthly cost budget for your EFS file systems. You can set up your budget to notify you if your costs are forecast to exceed your budgeted amount, and then make adjustments to maintain your budget as needed. 
There are costs associated with using AWS Budgets. For regular AWS accounts, your first two budgets are free. For more information about AWS Budgets, including costs, see Managing Your Costs with Budgets in the AWS Billing and Cost Management User Guide.
You can set custom budgets for your Amazon EFS costs and usage at the account, AWS Region, service, or tag level by using budget parameters. In the following section, you can find a high-level description of how to set up a cost budget on an EFS file system with AWS Budgets. You do so by using cost allocation tags.
Prerequisites
To perform the procedures referenced in the following sections, make sure that you have the following:
 An EFS file system
 An AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) policy with the following permissions:
   Access to the Billing and Cost Management console.
   Ability to perform the elasticfilesystem:CreateTags and elasticfilesystem:DescribeTags actions.
Creating a monthly cost budget for an EFS file system
Creating a monthly cost budget for your Amazon EFS file system using tags is a three-step process.
To create a monthly cost budget for your EFS file system using tags


Create a tag to use to identify the file system that you want to track costs for. To learn how, see Managing file system tags. 


In the Billing and Cost Management console, activate the tag as a cost allocation tag. For a detailed procedure, see Activating user-defined cost allocation tags in the AWS Billing and Cost Management User Guide. 


In the Billing and Cost Management console, under Budgets, create a monthly cost budget in AWS Budgets. For a detailed procedure, see Creating a cost budget in the AWS Billing and Cost Management User Guide. 


After you create your EFS monthly cost budget, you can view it in the Budgets dashboard, which displays the following budget data:
 Your current costs and usage incurred for a budget during the budget period.
 Your budgeted costs for the budget period.
 Your forecast costs for the budget period.
 A percentage that shows your costs compared to your budgeted amount.
 A percentage that shows your forecast costs compared to your budgeted amount.
For more information about viewing your EFS cost budget, see Viewing your budgets in the AWS Billing and Cost Management User Guide.