AWS services that work with AWS Resource Groups
You can use the following AWS services with AWS Resource Groups. 




AWS service
Using with Resource Groups




AWS CloudFormation – Create resource groups in AWS CloudFormation by using a stack template.
Provision and organize AWS resources at the same time. Organize resources by tags. Organize resources from another stack. Gather insights on your AWS resources in resource groups using Amazon CloudWatch or take operational actions using AWS Systems Manager. For more information, see ResourceGroups resource type reference in the AWS Resource Groups User Guide.


Amazon CloudWatch – Enable real-time monitoring of your AWS resources and the applications you run on AWS.
Focus your view to display metrics and alarms from a single resource group. For more information, see Focus on metrics and alarms in a resource group in the Amazon CloudWatch User Guide.


Amazon CloudWatch application insights – Detect common problems with your .NET and SQL Server-based applications.
Monitor your .NET and SQL Server application resources that belong to a resource group. For more information, see Supported application components in the Amazon CloudWatch User Guide.


Amazon DynamoDB table groups – Organize your DynamoDB tables into logical groupings so you can more easily manage your resources.
Create, edit, and delete groups of DynamoDB tables from the DynamoDB Action menu.  For more information, see the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Introduction.html


Amazon EC2 dedicated hosts – Use your existing per-socket, per-core, or per-VM software licenses, including Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, SUSE, and Linux Enterprise Server.
Launch Amazon EC2 instances into host resource groups and maximize utilization of Dedicated Hosts. For more information, see Working with dedicated hosts in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances.


Amazon EC2 capacity reservations – Reserve capacity for your Amazon EC2 instances to be used when you need it. You can specify attributes for the capacity reservation so that it only works with Amazon EC2 instances that launch with matching attributes.
Launch your Amazon EC2 instances into resource groups that contain one or more capacity reservations. If the group doesn't have a capacity reservation with matching attributes and available capacity for a requested instance, the instance runs as an on-demand instance. If you later add a matching capacity reservation to the targeted group, the instance is automatically matched with and moved into the reserved capacity. For more information, see Working with capacity reservation groups in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances.


AWS License Manager – Streamline the process of bringing software vendor licenses to the cloud.
Configure a host resource group to enable License Manager to manage your Dedicated Hosts.  For more information, see Host Resource Groups in License Manager in the License Manager User Guide.


AWS Resource Access Manager – Share specified AWS resources that you own with other accounts.
Share host resource groups using AWS RAM. For more information, see Shareable resources in the AWS RAM User Guide.


AWS Systems Manager – Enable visibility and control of your AWS resources.
Gather operational insights and take bulk actions on resource groups. In the AWS Systems Manager console, the AWS Resource Groups page displays operations data for the specified group on five tabs: Details, Config, CloudTrail, Monitoring, and OpsItems. You can use the information on these tabs to help you determine which resources in a group are compliant and working correctly and which resources require action. For more information, see Viewing operations data for AWS Resource Groups in the AWS Systems Manager User Guide. For more information, see AWS Resource Groups in the AWS Systems Manager User Guide.


