Working with Amazon S3 objects
Objects are the fundamental entities stored in Amazon S3. Objects consist of object data and metadata.
Topics
 Uploading a file to an Amazon S3 bucket
 Downloading an Amazon S3 object
 Deleting an Amazon S3 object
Uploading a file to an Amazon S3 bucket
This procedure uploads a file from a user's system and stores it as an S3 object in the AWS Cloud. You can upload a file to a bucket or to a folder that organizes that bucket's contents.


In the AWS Explorer, choose the Amazon S3 node to view the list of buckets.


Right-click a bucket or a folder in that bucket, and then choose Upload File. Or choose the Upload File icon across from the name of the bucket or folder.
Note
If you right-click an S3 object, you can choose Upload to Parent. This enables you to add a file to the folder or bucket that contains the selected file.


Using your system's file manager, select a file, and then choose Upload File.


The selected file is uploaded as an S3 object to the bucket or folder. Each object's entry describes the size of the stored object and how long ago it was uploaded. You can pause over the object's listing to view the path, size, and time when it was last modified.

Downloading an Amazon S3 object
You can download objects in an Amazon S3 bucket from the AWS Cloud to your system.


In the AWS Explorer, choose the S3 node to view the list of buckets.


In a bucket or in a folder in a bucket, right-click an object, and then choose Download As. Or choose the Download As icon across from the name of the object.


Using your system's file manager, select a destination folder, enter a file name, and then choose Download.


After a file is downloaded, you can open it in the IDE interface using the AWS Toolkit Logs on the Output tab. Depending on your operating system, press Cmd or Ctrl and click the link to the file's location.
Deleting an Amazon S3 object
You can permanently delete an object if it's in a non-versioned bucket.But for versioning-enabled buckets, a delete request does not permanently delete that object. Instead, Amazon S3 inserts a delete marker in the bucket. For more information, see Deleting object versions in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide.


In the AWS Explorer, choose the S3 node to view the list of buckets.


In a bucket or a folder in a bucket, right-click an object, and then choose Delete.


Choose Delete to confirm.

