Working with Amazon S3 buckets
Every object you store in Amazon S3 resides in a bucket. You can use buckets to group related objects in the same way that you use a directory to group files in a file system.
Topics
 Creating an Amazon S3 bucket
 Adding a folder to an Amazon S3 bucket
 Deleting an Amazon S3 bucket
 Configuring the display of Amazon S3 items
Creating an Amazon S3 bucket


In the AWS Explorer, right-click the S3 node, and then choose Create Bucket. Or choose the Create Bucket icon across from the S3 node. 



In the Bucket Name field, enter a valid name for the bucket. Press Enter to confirm.


The new bucket is displayed under the S3 node.
Note
Because Amazon S3 allows your bucket to be used as a URL that can be accessed publicly, the bucket name that you choose must be globally unique. If some other account has already created a bucket with the name that you chose, you must use another name.
You can check the AWS Toolkit Logs in the Output tab if you can't create a bucket. For example, a BucketAlreadyExists error occurs if you use a bucket name already in use. For more information, see Bucket restrictions and limitations in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide.
After a bucket is created, you can copy its name and Amazon Resource Name (ARN) to the clipboard. Right-click the bucket entry and select the relevant option from the menu.
Adding a folder to an Amazon S3 bucket
You organize a bucket's contents by grouping objects in folders. You can also create folders within other folders.


In the AWS Explorer, choose the Amazon S3 node to view the list of buckets.


Right-click a bucket or a folder, and then choose Create Folder. Or choose the Create Folder icon across from the name of the bucket or folder.


Enter a Folder Name, and then press Enter.


Deleting an Amazon S3 bucket
When you delete a bucket you also delete the folders and objects that it contains. You're asked to confirm that you want to do this before the deletion is carried out.
Note
To delete only a folder, not the entire bucket, use the AWS Management Console. 


In the AWS Explorer, choose the S3 node to expand the list of buckets.


Right-click the bucket to delete, and then choose Delete S3 Bucket.


Enter the bucket's name to confirm the deletion, and then press Enter.
Note
If the bucket contains objects, the bucket is emptied before deletion. This can take some time if it's necessary to delete every version of thousands of objects. A notification is displayed after the deletion is complete.


Configuring the display of Amazon S3 items
If you're working with a large number of Amazon S3 objects or folders, you can specify how many are displayed at one time. When the maximum number is displayed, you can choose Load More to display the next batch. 



In the VS Code Activity Bar, choose Extensions.


For the AWS Toolkit extension, choose the settings icon, and then choose Extension Settings.


On the Settings page, scroll down to the AWS > S3: Max Items Per Page setting.


Change the default value to the number of S3 items you want displayed before choosing to load more.
Note
The range of accepted values is between 3 and 1000. This setting applies only to the number of objects or folders displayed at one time. All the buckets you've created are displayed at once. (By default, you can create up to 100 buckets in each of your AWS accounts.)


Close the Settings page to confirm your changes.


You can also update the settings in a JSON-formatted file by choosing the Open Settings (JSON) icon in the upper right of the Settings page.
