Deactivating Your Pipeline
Deactivating a running pipeline pauses the pipeline execution. To resume pipeline execution, you can activate the pipeline. This enables you to make changes. For example, if you are writing data to a database that is scheduled to undergo maintenance, you can deactivate the pipeline, wait for the maintenance to complete, and then activate the pipeline.
When you deactivate a pipeline, you can specify what happens to running activities. By default, these activities are canceled immediately. Alternatively, you can have AWS Data Pipeline wait until the activities finish before deactivating the pipeline.
When you activate a deactivated pipeline, you can specify when it resumes. For example, using the AWS Management Console, you can resume after the last completed run, from the current time, or from a specified date and time. Using the AWS CLI or the API, the pipeline resumes from the last completed execution by default, or you can specify the date and time to resume the pipeline.
Topics
 Deactivate Your Pipeline Using the Console
 Deactivate Your Pipeline Using the AWS CLI
Deactivate Your Pipeline Using the Console
Use the following procedure to deactivate a running pipeline.
To deactivate a pipeline


In the List Pipelines page, select the pipeline to deactivate.


Click Actions, and then click Deactivate.


In the Deactivate a Pipeline dialog box, select an option, and then click Deactivate.


When prompted for confirmation, click Deactivate.


When you are ready to resume the pipeline runs, use the following procedure to activate the deactivated pipeline.
To activate a pipeline


In the List Pipelines page, select the pipeline to activate.


Click Actions, and then click Activate.


In the Activate a Pipeline dialog box, select an option, and then choose Activate.


Deactivate Your Pipeline Using the AWS CLI
Use the following deactivate-pipeline command to deactivate a pipeline:
aws datapipeline deactivate-pipeline --pipeline-id df-00627471SOVYZEXAMPLE
To deactivate the pipeline only after all running activities finish, add the --no-cancel-active option, as follows:
aws datapipeline deactivate-pipeline --pipeline-id df-00627471SOVYZEXAMPLE --no-cancel-active
When you are ready, you can resume the pipeline execution where it left off using the following activate-pipeline command:
aws datapipeline activate-pipeline --pipeline-id df-00627471SOVYZEXAMPLE
To start the pipeline from a specific date and time, add the --start-timestamp option, as follows:
aws datapipeline activate-pipeline --pipeline-id df-00627471SOVYZEXAMPLE --start-timestamp YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ