Launch a Cluster Using the AWS Data Pipeline Console
You can create a pipeline to launch a cluster to analyze web logs or perform analysis of scientific data.
Topics
 Create the Pipeline
 Save and Validate Your Pipeline
 Activate Your Pipeline
 Monitor the Pipeline Runs
 (Optional) Delete Your Pipeline
Create the Pipeline
First, create the pipeline.
To create your pipeline


Open the AWS Data Pipeline console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/datapipeline/.


The first screen that you see depends on whether you've created a pipeline in the current region.


If you haven't created a pipeline in this region, the console displays an introductory screen. Choose Get started now.


If you've already created a pipeline in this region, the console displays a page that lists your pipelines for the region. Choose Create new pipeline.


In Name, enter a name for your pipeline.


(Optional) In Description, enter a description for your pipeline.


For Source, select Build using Architect.


Under Schedule, choose on pipeline activation.


Under Pipeline Configuration, leave logging enabled. Choose the folder icon under S3 location for logs, select one of your buckets or folders, and then choose Select.


If you prefer, you can disable logging instead.


Under Security/Access, leave IAM roles set to Default.


Click Edit in Architect.


Next, add an activity to your pipeline definition. This also defines the other objects that AWS Data Pipeline must use to perform this activity.
To configure the activity


Click Add activity.


In the Activities pane:


In the Name field, enter the name for the activity (for example, MyEMRActivity).


From Type, select EmrActivity.


In Step, enter:
/home/hadoop/contrib/streaming/hadoop-streaming.jar,-input,s3n://elasticmapreduce/samples/wordcount/input,-output,s3://example-bucket/wordcount/output/#{@scheduledStartTime},-mapper,s3n://elasticmapreduce/samples/wordcount/wordSplitter.py,-reducer,aggregate


In Add an optional field, select Runs On. Set the value to Create new: EmrCluster.


In Add an optional field, select On Success. Set the value to Create new: Action.



Next, configure the resource that AWS Data Pipeline uses to perform the Amazon EMR job. 
To configure the resource


In the right pane, choose Resources.


In the Name field, enter the name for your Amazon EMR cluster (for example, MyEMRCluster).


Leave Type set to EmrCluster.


[EC2-VPC] (Optional) From Add an optional field, select Subnet Id. Set the value to the ID of the subnet.


(Optional) From Add an optional field, select Enable Debugging. Set the value to true.
Note
This option can incur extra costs because of log data storage. Use this option selectively, such as for prototyping and troubleshooting.


(Optional) In the right pane, choose Others. Under Default, from Add an optional field, select Pipeline Log Uri. Set the value to an Amazon S3 bucket for the Amazon EMR logs. For example, s3://examples-bucket/emrlogs.
Note
This option can incur extra costs because of log file storage. Use this option selectively, such as for prototyping and troubleshooting.


Next, configure the Amazon SNS notification action that AWS Data Pipeline performs after the Amazon EMR job finishes successfully.
To configure the notification action


In the right pane, click Others.


Under DefaultAction1, do the following:


Enter the name for your notification (for example, MyEMRJobNotice).


From Type, select SnsAlarm.


In the Subject field, enter the subject line for your notification.


In the Topic Arn field, enter the ARN of your topic (see Create a Topic).


In Message, enter the message content.


Leave Role set to the default value.


Save and Validate Your Pipeline
You can save your pipeline definition at any point during the creation process. As soon as you save your pipeline definition, AWS Data Pipeline looks for syntax errors and missing values in your pipeline definition. If your pipeline is incomplete or incorrect, AWS Data Pipeline generates validation errors and warnings. Warning messages are informational only, but you must fix any error messages before you can activate your pipeline.
To save and validate your pipeline


Choose Save pipeline.


AWS Data Pipeline validates your pipeline definition and returns either success or error or warning messages. If you get an error message, choose Close and then, in the right pane, choose Errors/Warnings.


The Errors/Warnings pane lists the objects that failed validation. Choose the plus () sign next to the object names and look for an error message in red.


When you see an error message, go to the specific object pane where you see the error and fix it. For example, if you see an error message in the DataNodes object, go to the DataNodes pane to fix the error.


After you fix the errors listed in the Errors/Warnings pane, choose Save Pipeline.


Repeat the process until your pipeline validates successfully.


Activate Your Pipeline
Activate your pipeline to start creating and processing runs. The pipeline starts based on the schedule and period in your pipeline definition.
Important
If activation succeeds, your pipeline is running and might incur usage charges. For more information, see AWS Data Pipeline pricing. To stop incurring usage charges for AWS Data Pipeline, delete your pipeline.
To activate your pipeline


Choose Activate.


In the confirmation dialog box, choose Close.


Monitor the Pipeline Runs
After you activate your pipeline, you are taken to the Execution details page where you can monitor the progress of your pipeline.
To monitor the progress of your pipeline runs


Choose Update or press F5 to update the status displayed.
Tip
If there are no runs listed, ensure that Start (in UTC) and End (in UTC) cover the scheduled start and end of your pipeline, and then choose Update.


When the status of every object in your pipeline is FINISHED, your pipeline has successfully completed the scheduled tasks. If you created an SNS notification, you should receive email about the successful completion of this task.


If your pipeline doesn't complete successfully, check your pipeline settings for issues. For more information about troubleshooting failed or incomplete instance runs of your pipeline, see Resolving Common Problems.


(Optional) Delete Your Pipeline
To stop incurring charges, delete your pipeline. Deleting your pipeline deletes the pipeline definition and all associated objects.
To delete your pipeline


On the List Pipelines page, select your pipeline.


Click Actions, and then choose Delete.


When prompted for confirmation, choose Delete.

