Using other AWS services to view Trusted Advisor reports
Follow this tutorial to upload and view your data by using other AWS services. In this topic, you create an Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) bucket to store your report and an AWS CloudFormation template to create resources in your account. Then, you can use Amazon Athena to analyze or run queries for your report or Amazon QuickSight to visualize that data in a dashboard.
Prerequisites
Before you start this tutorial, you must meet the following requirements:
 Sign in as an AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) user with administrator permissions.
 Use the US East (N. Virginia) AWS Region to quickly set up your AWS services and resources. 
 Create an Amazon QuickSight account. For more information, see Getting Started with Data Analysis in Amazon QuickSight in the Amazon QuickSight User Guide.
Upload the report to Amazon S3
After you download your resources.json report, upload the file to Amazon S3. You must use a bucket in the US East (N. Virginia) Region.
To upload the report to an Amazon S3 bucket


Sign in to the AWS Management Console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/.


Use the Region selector and choose the US East (N. Virginia) Region.


Open the Amazon S3 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/.


Choose an S3 bucket and copy the name. You use the name in the next procedure.


Choose Create folder, enter the name folder1, and choose Save. 


Choose the folder1.


In folder1, choose Upload and choose the resources.json file.


Choose Next, keep the default options, and then choose Upload.
Note
If you upload a new report to this bucket, rename the .json files each time you upload them so that you don't override the existing reports. For example, you can add the timestamp to each file, such as resources-timestamp.json, resources-timestamp2.json, and so on.


Create your resources using AWS CloudFormation
After you upload your report to Amazon S3, upload the following YAML template to AWS CloudFormation. This template tells AWS CloudFormation what resources to create for your account so that other services can use the report data in the S3 bucket. The template creates resources for IAM, AWS Lambda, and AWS Glue.
To create your resources with AWS CloudFormation


Download the trusted-advisor-reports-template.zip file.


Unzip the file.


Open the template file in a text editor, replace the  tag with the bucket name in your account, and then save the file.


Open the AWS CloudFormation console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation.


If you haven't already, in the Region selector, choose the US East (N. Virginia) Region.


In the navigation pane, choose Stacks.


Choose Create stack and choose With new resources (standard).


On the Create stack page, under Specify template, choose Upload a template file, and then choose Choose file.


Choose the YAML file and choose Next.


On the Specify stack details page, enter a stack name such as Organizational-view-Trusted-Advisor-reports, and choose Next.


On the Configure stack options page, keep the default options, and then choose Next.


On the Review Organizational-view-Trusted-Advisor-reports  page, review your options. At the bottom of the page, select the check box for I acknowledge that AWS CloudFormation might create IAM resources.


Choose Create stack.


The stack takes about 5 minutes to create.

After the stack creates successfully, the Resources tab appears like the following example.


Query the data in Amazon Athena
After you have your resources, you can view the data in Athena. Use Athena to create queries and analyze the results of the report, such as looking up specific check results for accounts in the organization.
To query the data in Athena


Open the Athena console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/athena/.


If you haven't already, in the Region selector, choose the US East (N. Virginia) Region.


Choose Saved Queries and in search field, enter Show sample.


Choose the query that appears, such as Show sample entries of TA report. 



The query should look like the following.
SELECT * FROM "athenatacfn"."folder1" limit 10

Choose Run query. Your query results appear. 

Example : Athena query
The following example shows 10 sample entries from the report.  

For more information, see Running SQL Queries Using Amazon Athena in the Amazon Athena User Guide.
Create a dashboard in Amazon QuickSight
You can also set up Amazon QuickSight so that you can view your data in a dashboard and visualize your report information.
Note
You must use the US East (N. Virginia) Region.
To create a dashboard in Amazon QuickSight


Navigate to the Amazon QuickSight console and sign in to your account at https://us-east-1.quicksight.aws.amazon.com.


Choose New analysis, New dataset, and then choose Athena.


In the New Athena data source dialog box, enter a data source name such as AthenaTA, and then choose Create data source.



In the Choose your table dialog box, choose the athenatacfn table, choose folder1, and then choose Select.



In the Finish data set creation dialog box, choose Directly query your data, and then choose Visualize.



You can now create a dashboard in Amazon QuickSight. For more information, see Working with Dashboards in the Amazon QuickSight User Guide.
Example : Amazon QuickSight dashboard
The following example dashboard shows information about the Trusted Advisor checks, such as the following:
 Affected account IDs
 Summary by AWS Regions
 Check categories
 Check statuses
 Number of entries in the report for each account

Note
If you have permission errors while creating your dashboard, make sure that Amazon QuickSight can use Athena. For more information, see I Can't Connect to Amazon Athena in the Amazon QuickSight User Guide.