Compliance validation for AWS WAF Classic
Note
This is AWS WAF Classic documentation. You should only use this version if you created AWS WAF resources, like rules and web ACLs, in AWS WAF prior to November 2019, and you have not migrated them over to the latest version yet. To migrate your resources, see Migrating your AWS WAF Classic resources to AWS WAF .
For the latest version of AWS WAF, see AWS WAF. 
Third-party auditors assess the security and compliance of AWS WAF Classic as part of multiple AWS compliance programs, such as SOC, PCI, FedRAMP, HIPAA, and others. 
For a list of AWS services in scope of specific compliance programs, see AWS Services in Scope by Compliance Program. For general information, see AWS Compliance Programs.
You can download third-party audit reports using AWS Artifact. For more information, see Downloading Reports in AWS Artifact. 
Your compliance responsibility when using AWS WAF Classic is determined by the sensitivity of your data, your organization’s compliance objectives, and applicable laws and regulations. If your use of AWS WAF Classic is subject to compliance with standards like HIPAA, PCI, or FedRAMP, AWS provides resources to help:
 Security and Compliance Quick Start Guides – These deployment guides discuss architectural considerations and provide steps for deploying security- and compliance-focused baseline environments on AWS.
 Architecting for HIPAA Security and Compliance Whitepaper  – This whitepaper describes how companies can use AWS to create HIPAA-compliant applications.
 AWS Compliance Resources – This collection of workbooks and guides might apply to your industry and location.
 AWS Config – This AWS service assesses how well your resource configurations comply with internal practices, industry guidelines, and regulations.
 AWS Security Hub – This AWS service provides a comprehensive view of your security state within AWS that helps you check your compliance with security industry standards and best practices.
 AWS Well-Architected Framework – The AWS Well-Architected Framework helps you build secure cloud applications. 