Step 3: Create a rule group
Note
This is AWS WAF Classic documentation. You should only use this version if you created AWS WAF resources, like rules and web ACLs, in AWS WAF prior to November 2019, and you have not migrated them over to the latest version yet. To migrate your resources, see Migrating your AWS WAF Classic resources to AWS WAF .
For the latest version of AWS WAF, see AWS WAF. 
A rule group is a set of rules that defines what actions to take when a particular set of conditions is met. You can use managed rule groups from AWS Marketplace, and you can create your own rule groups. For information about managed rule groups, see AWS marketplace rule groups.
To create your own rule group, perform the following procedure.
To create a rule group (console)


Sign in to the AWS Management Console using the AWS Firewall Manager administrator account that you set up in the prerequisites, and then open the Firewall Manager console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/wafv2/fms. 


In the navigation pane, choose Security policies. 


If you have not met the prerequisites, the console displays instructions about how to fix any issues. Follow the instructions, and then begin this step (create a rule group) again. If you have met the prerequisites, choose Close. 


Choose Create policy.


For Policy type, choose AWS WAF Classic. 


Choose Create an AWS Firewall Manager policy and add a new rule group.


Choose an AWS Region, and then choose Next.


Because you already created rules, you don't need to create conditions. Choose Next.


Because you already created rules, you don't need to create rules. Choose Next.


Choose Create rule group.


For Name, enter a friendly name. 


Enter a name for the CloudWatch metric that AWS WAF Classic will create and will associate with the rule group. The name can contain only alphanumeric characters (A-Z, a-z, 0-9) or the following special characters: _-!"#`*},./. It can't contain white space.


Select a rule, and then choose Add rule. A rule has an action setting that allows you to choose whether to allow, block, or count requests that match the rule's conditions. For this tutorial, choose Count. Repeat adding rules until you have added all the rules that you want to the rule group.


Choose Create.


You are now ready to go to Step 4: Create and apply an AWS Firewall Manager AWS WAF Classic policy.