Associating or disassociating a Web ACL with an AWS resource
You can use AWS WAF to associate a web ACL with the following AWS regional resource types:
 Application Load Balancer
 Amazon API Gateway REST API
You can associate a web ACL with a CloudFront distribution when you create or update the distribution itself. For information, see Using AWS WAF to Control Access to Your Content in the Amazon CloudFront Developer Guide.
You can only associate a web ACL to an Application Load Balancer within AWS Regions. For example, you can't associate a web ACL to an Application Load Balancer that is on AWS Outposts.
Restrictions on multiple associations
You can associate a single web ACL with one or more AWS resources, according to the following restrictions:
 You can associate each AWS resource with only one web ACL. The relationship between web ACL and AWS resources is one-to-many. 
 You can associate a web ACL with one or more CloudFront distributions. You can't associate a web ACL that you've associated with a CloudFront distribution with any other AWS resource type.
To associate a web ACL with an Amazon CloudFront distribution, an Amazon API Gateway REST API, or an Application Load Balancer


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the AWS WAF console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/wafv2/. 


In the navigation pane, choose Web ACLs.


Choose the web ACL that you want to associate with a resource. 


On the Associated AWS resources tab, choose Add AWS resources.


When prompted, choose your resource that you want to associate this web ACL with. If you choose an Amazon API Gateway REST API or an Application Load Balancer, specify a Region.


Choose Add.


To disassociate a web ACL from an Amazon CloudFront distribution, an Amazon API Gateway REST API, or an Application Load Balancer


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the AWS WAF console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/wafv2/. 


In the navigation pane, choose Web ACLs.


Choose the web ACL that you want to disassociate from your resource.


On the Associated AWS resources tab, deselect the resources that you want to disassociate this web ACL from.


Choose Save.

