Creating IAM SAML identity providers
An IAM SAML 2.0 identity provider is an entity in IAM that describes an external identity provider (IdP) service that supports the SAML 2.0 (Security Assertion Markup Language 2.0) standard. You use an IAM identity provider when you want to establish trust between a SAML-compatible IdP such as Shibboleth or Active Directory Federation Services and AWS, so that users in your organization can access AWS resources. IAM SAML identity providers are used as principals in an IAM trust policy. 
For more information about this scenario, see About SAML 2.0-based federation.
You can create and manage an IAM identity provider in the AWS Management Console or with AWS CLI, Tools for Windows PowerShell, or AWS API calls. 
After you create a SAML provider, you must create one or more IAM roles. A role is an identity in AWS that doesn't have its own credentials (as a user does). But in this context, a role is dynamically assigned to a federated user that is authenticated by your organization's IdP. The role permits your organization's IdP to request temporary security credentials for access to AWS. The policies assigned to the role determine what the federated users are allowed to do in AWS. To create a role for SAML federation, see Creating a role for a third-party Identity Provider (federation). 
Finally, after you create the role, you complete the SAML trust by configuring your IdP with information about AWS and the roles that you want your federated users to use. This is referred to as configuring relying party trust between your IdP and AWS. To configure relying party trust, see Configuring your SAML 2.0 IdP with relying party trust and adding claims. 
Topics
 Creating and managing an IAM identity provider (console)
 Creating and managing an IAM SAML Identity Provider (AWS CLI)
 Creating and managing an IAM SAML identity provider (AWS API)
 Configuring your SAML 2.0 IdP with relying party trust and adding claims
 Integrating third-party SAML solution providers with AWS
 Configuring SAML assertions for the authentication response
Creating and managing an IAM identity provider (console)
You can use the AWS Management Console to create and delete IAM SAML identity providers.
To create an IAM identity provider (console)


Before you can create an IAM identity provider, you need the SAML metadata document that you get from the IdP, This document includes the issuer's name, expiration information, and keys that can be used to validate the SAML authentication response (assertions) that are received from the IdP. To generate the metadata document, use the identity management software your organization uses as its IdP. For instructions on how to configure many of the available IdPs to work with AWS, including how to generate the required SAML metadata document, see Integrating third-party SAML solution providers with AWS.
Important
The metadata file must be encoded in UTF-8 format without a byte order mark (BOM). Also, the x.509 certificate that is included as part of the SAML metadata document must use a key size of at least 1024 bits. If the key size is smaller, the IdP creation fails with an "Unable to parse metadata" error. To remove the BOM, you can encode the file as UTF-8 using a text editing tool, such as Notepad.


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/.


In the navigation pane, click Identity Providers and then click Create Provider. 


For Provider Type, click Choose a provider type and click SAML. 


Type a name for the identity provider.


For Metadata Document, click Choose File, specify the SAML metadata document that you downloaded in Step 1, and click Open. Click Next Step.


Verify the information that you have provided, and click Create. 


To delete a SAML provider (console)


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/.


In the navigation pane, click Identity Providers.


Select the check box next to the identity provider that you want to delete.


Click Delete Providers.


Creating and managing an IAM SAML Identity Provider (AWS CLI)
You can use the AWS CLI to create and manage SAML providers.
Before you can create an IAM identity provider, you need the SAML metadata document that you get from the IdP, This document includes the issuer's name, expiration information, and keys that can be used to validate the SAML authentication response (assertions) that are received from the IdP. To generate the metadata document, use the identity management software your organization uses as its IdP. For instructions on how to configure many of the available IdPs to work with AWS, including how to generate the required SAML metadata document, see Integrating third-party SAML solution providers with AWS.
Important
The metadata file must be encoded in UTF-8 format without a byte order mark (BOM). Also, the x.509 certificate that is included as part of the SAML metadata document must use a key size of at least 1024 bits. If the key size is smaller, the IdP creation fails with an "Unable to parse metadata" error. To remove the BOM, you can encode the file as UTF-8 using a text editing tool, such as Notepad.
To create an IAM identity provider and upload a metadata document (AWS CLI)
 Run this command: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/iam/create-saml-provider.html 
To upload a new metadata document for an IAM identity provider (AWS CLI)
 Run this command:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/iam/update-saml-provider.html 
To delete an IAM SAML identity provider (AWS CLI)


(Optional) To list information for all providers, such as the ARN, creation date, and expiration, run the following command:
    https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/iam/list-saml-providers.html


(Optional) To get information about a specific provider, such as the ARN, creation date, and expiration, run the following command:
    https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/iam/get-saml-provider.html


To delete an IAM identity provider, run the following command:
    https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/iam/delete-saml-provider.html


Creating and managing an IAM SAML identity provider (AWS API)
You can use the AWS API to create and manage SAML providers.
Before you can create an IAM identity provider, you need the SAML metadata document that you get from the IdP, This document includes the issuer's name, expiration information, and keys that can be used to validate the SAML authentication response (assertions) that are received from the IdP. To generate the metadata document, use the identity management software your organization uses as its IdP. For instructions on how to configure many of the available IdPs to work with AWS, including how to generate the required SAML metadata document, see Integrating third-party SAML solution providers with AWS.
Important
The metadata file must be encoded in UTF-8 format without a byte order mark (BOM). Also, the x.509 certificate that is included as part of the SAML metadata document must use a key size of at least 1024 bits. If the key size is smaller, the IdP creation fails with an "Unable to parse metadata" error. To remove the BOM, you can encode the file as UTF-8 using a text editing tool, such as Notepad.
To create an IAM identity provider and upload a metadata document (AWS API)
 Call this operation: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_CreateSAMLProvider.html
To upload a new metadata document for an IAM identity provider (AWS API)
 Call this operation: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_UpdateSAMLProvider.html
To delete an IAM identity provider (AWS API)


(Optional) To list information for all IdPs, such as the ARN, creation date, and expiration, call the following operation:
    https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_ListSAMLProviders.html


(Optional) To get information about a specific provider, such as the ARN, creation date, and expiration, call the following operation:
    https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_GetSAMLProvider.html


To delete an IdP, call the following operation:
    https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/APIReference/API_DeleteSAMLProvider.html

