Creating a role for SAML 2.0 federation (console)
You can use SAML 2.0 federation instead of creating IAM users in your AWS account. With an identity provider (IdP), you can manage your user identities outside of AWS and give these external user identities permissions to access AWS resources in your account. For more information about federation and identity providers, see Identity providers and federation.
Prerequisites for creating a role for SAML
Before you can create a role for SAML 2.0 federation, you must first complete the following prerequisite steps:
To prepare to create a role for SAML 2.0 federation


Before you create a role for SAML-based federation, you must create a SAML provider in IAM. For more information, see Creating IAM SAML identity providers.


Prepare the policies for the role that the SAML 2.0–authenticated users will assume. As with any role, a role for the SAML federation includes two policies. One is the role trust policy that specifies who can assume the role. The other is the IAM permissions policy that specifies the AWS actions and resources that the federated user is allowed or denied access to.


When you create the trust policy for your role, you must use three values that ensure that the role can be assumed only by your application:
    For the Action element, use the sts:AssumeRoleWithSAML action.
    For the Principal element, use the string {"Federated":ARNofIdentityProvider}. Replace ARNofIdentityProvider with the ARN of the SAML identity provider that you created in Step 1.
    For the Condition element, use a StringEquals condition to test that the saml:aud attribute from the SAML response matches the SAML federation endpoint for AWS. 
The following example trust policy is designed for a SAML federated user:
{
       "Version": "2012-10-17",
       "Statement": {
         "Effect": "Allow",
         "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithSAML",
         "Principal": {"Federated": "arn:aws:iam::ACCOUNT-ID-WITHOUT-HYPHENS:saml-provider/PROVIDER-NAME"},
         "Condition": {"StringEquals": {"SAML:aud": "https://signin.aws.amazon.com/saml"}}
       }
     }
Replace the principal ARN with the actual ARN for the SAML provider that you created in IAM. It will have your own account ID and provider name. 
Creating a role for SAML
After you complete the prerequisite steps, you can create the role for SAML-based federation. 
To create a role for SAML-based federation


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/.


In the navigation pane of the IAM console, choose Roles and then choose Create role.


Choose the SAML 2.0 federation role type.


For SAML Provider, choose the provider for your role. 


Choose the SAML 2.0 access level method. 
    Choose Allow programmatic access only to create a role that can be assumed programmatically from the AWS API or AWS CLI.
    Choose Allow programmatic and AWS Management Console access to create a role that can be assumed programmatically and from the console.


The roles created by both are similar, but the role that can also be assumed from the console includes a trust policy with a particular condition. That condition explicitly ensures that the SAML audience (SAML:aud attribute) is set to the AWS sign-in endpoint for SAML (https://signin.aws.amazon.com/saml).

If you're creating a role for programmatic access, choose an attribute from the Attribute list. Then in the Value box, type a value to include in the role. This restricts role access to users from the identity provider whose SAML authentication response (assertion) includes the attributes that you specify. You must specify at least one attribute to ensure that your role is limited to a subset of users at your organization. 

If you're creating a role for programmatic and console access, the SAML:aud attribute is automatically added and set to the URL of the AWS SAML endpoint (https://signin.aws.amazon.com/saml). 


To add more attribute-related conditions to the trust policy, choose Add condition (optional), select the additional condition, and specify a value. 
Note
The list includes the most commonly used SAML attributes. IAM supports additional attributes that you can use to create conditions. (For a list of the supported attributes, see Available Keys for SAML Federation in the topic IAM JSON policy elements reference.) If you need a condition for a supported SAML attribute that's not in the list, you can manually add that condition. To do that, edit the trust policy after you create the role.


Review your SAML 2.0 trust information and then choose Next: Permissions. 


IAM includes a list of the AWS managed and customer managed policies in your account. Select the policy to use for the permissions policy or choose Create policy to open a new browser tab and create a new policy from scratch. For more information, see step 4 in the procedure Creating IAM policies (console). After you create the policy, close that tab and return to your original tab. Select the check box next to the permissions policies that you want web identity users to have. If you prefer, you can select no policies at this time, and then attach policies to the role later. By default, a role has no permissions.


(Optional) Set a permissions boundary. This is an advanced feature.


Open the Set permissions boundary section and choose Use a permissions boundary to control the maximum role permissions. Select the policy to use for the permissions boundary.


Choose Next: Tags.


(Optional) Add metadata to the role by attaching tags as key–value pairs. For more information about using tags in IAM, see Tagging IAM users and roles.


Choose Next: Review.


For Role name, type a role name. Role names must be unique within your AWS account. They are not distinguished by case. For example, you cannot create roles named both PRODROLE and prodrole. Because other AWS resources might reference the role, you cannot edit the name of the role after it has been created. 


(Optional) For Role description, type a description for the new role.


Review the role and then choose Create role.


After you create the role, you complete the SAML trust by configuring your identity provider software with information about AWS. This information includes the roles that you want your federated users to use. This is referred to as configuring the relying party trust between your IdP and AWS. For more information, see Configuring your SAML 2.0 IdP with relying party trust and adding claims. 