Actions, resources, and condition keys for AWS Import Export Disk Service
AWS Import Export Disk Service (service prefix: importexport) provides the following service-specific resources, actions, and condition context keys for use in IAM permission policies.
References:
 Learn how to configure this service.
 View a list of the API operations available for this service.
 Learn how to secure this service and its resources by using IAM permission policies.
Topics
 Actions defined by AWS Import Export Disk Service
 Resource types defined by AWS Import Export Disk Service
 Condition keys for AWS Import Export Disk Service
Actions defined by AWS Import Export Disk Service
You can specify the following actions in the Action element of an IAM policy statement. Use policies to grant permissions to perform an operation in AWS. When you use an action in a policy, you usually allow or deny access to the API operation or CLI command with the same name. However, in some cases, a single action controls access to more than one operation. Alternatively, some operations require several different actions.
The Resource types column indicates whether each action supports resource-level permissions. If there is no value for this column, you must specify all resources ("*") in the Resource element of your policy statement. If the column includes a resource type, then you can specify an ARN of that type in a statement with that action. Required resources are indicated in the table with an asterisk (*). If you specify a resource-level permission ARN in a statement using this action, then it must be of this type. Some actions support multiple resource types. If the resource type is optional (not indicated as required), then you can choose to use one but not the other.
For details about the columns in the following table, see The actions table.




Actions
Description
Access level
Resource types (*required)
Condition keys
Dependent actions




 CancelJob 
This action cancels a specified job. Only the job owner can cancel it. The action fails if the job has already started or is complete.
Write





 CreateJob 
This action initiates the process of scheduling an upload or download of your data.
Write





 GetShippingLabel 
This action generates a pre-paid shipping label that you will use to ship your device to AWS for processing.
Read





 GetStatus 
This action returns information about a job, including where the job is in the processing pipeline, the status of the results, and the signature value associated with the job.
Read





 ListJobs 
This action returns the jobs associated with the requester.
List





 UpdateJob 
You use this action to change the parameters specified in the original manifest file by supplying a new manifest file.
Write






Resource types defined by AWS Import Export Disk Service
AWS Import Export Disk Service does not support specifying a resource ARN in the Resource element of an IAM policy statement. To allow access to AWS Import Export Disk Service, specify “Resource”: “*” in your policy.
Condition keys for AWS Import Export Disk Service
Import/Export has no service-specific context keys that can be used in the Condition element of policy statements. For the list of the global context keys that are available to all services, see Available keys for conditions.