Actions, resources, and condition keys for Amazon Redshift Data API
Amazon Redshift Data API (service prefix: redshift-data) provides the following service-specific resources, actions, and condition context keys for use in IAM permission policies.
References:
 Learn how to configure this service.
 View a list of the API operations available for this service.
 Learn how to secure this service and its resources by using IAM permission policies.
Topics
 Actions defined by Amazon Redshift Data API
 Resource types defined by Amazon Redshift Data API
 Condition keys for Amazon Redshift Data API
Actions defined by Amazon Redshift Data API
You can specify the following actions in the Action element of an IAM policy statement. Use policies to grant permissions to perform an operation in AWS. When you use an action in a policy, you usually allow or deny access to the API operation or CLI command with the same name. However, in some cases, a single action controls access to more than one operation. Alternatively, some operations require several different actions.
The Resource types column indicates whether each action supports resource-level permissions. If there is no value for this column, you must specify all resources ("*") in the Resource element of your policy statement. If the column includes a resource type, then you can specify an ARN of that type in a statement with that action. Required resources are indicated in the table with an asterisk (*). If you specify a resource-level permission ARN in a statement using this action, then it must be of this type. Some actions support multiple resource types. If the resource type is optional (not indicated as required), then you can choose to use one but not the other.
For details about the columns in the following table, see The actions table.




Actions
Description
Access level
Resource types (*required)
Condition keys
Dependent actions




 CancelStatement 
Grants permission to cancel a running query
Write





 DescribeStatement 
Grants permission to retrieve detailed information about a statement execution
Read





 DescribeTable 
Grants permission to retrieve metadata about a particular table
Read





 ExecuteStatement 
Grants permission to execute a query
Write





 GetStatementResult 
Grants permission to fetch the result of a query
Read





 ListDatabases 
Grants permission to list databases for a given cluster
List





 ListSchemas 
Grants permission to list schemas for a given cluster
List





 ListStatements 
Grants permission to list queries for a given principal
List





 ListTables 
Grants permission to list tables for a given cluster
List






Resource types defined by Amazon Redshift Data API
Amazon Redshift Data API does not support specifying a resource ARN in the Resource element of an IAM policy statement. To allow access to Amazon Redshift Data API, specify “Resource”: “*” in your policy.
Condition keys for Amazon Redshift Data API
Redshift Data API has no service-specific context keys that can be used in the Condition element of policy statements. For the list of the global context keys that are available to all services, see Available keys for conditions.