Viewing Pipeline Instance Details
You can monitor the progress of your pipeline. For more information about instance status, see Interpreting Pipeline Status Details. For more information about troubleshooting failed or incomplete instance runs of your pipeline, see Resolving Common Problems.
To monitor the progress of a pipeline using the console


On the List Pipelines page, in the Pipeline ID column, click the arrow for your pipeline and click View execution details.


The Execution details page lists the name, type, status, and schedule information of each component.


You can then click on the arrow for each component name to view dependency information for that component. 

In the inline summary, you can view instance details, re-run an activity, mark it as FINISHED, or explore the dependency chain. 

Note
If you do not see runs listed, check when your pipeline was scheduled. Either change End (in UTC) to a later date or change Start (in UTC) an earlier date, and then click Update.

If the Status column of all components in your pipeline is FINISHED, your pipeline has successfully completed the activity. You should receive an email about the successful completion of this task, to the account that you specified to receive Amazon SNS notifications.

You can also check the content of your output data node.


If the Status column of any component in your pipeline is not FINISHED, either your pipeline is waiting for some dependency or it has failed. To troubleshoot failed or the incomplete instance runs, use the following procedure.


Click the triangle next to a component or activity.


If the status of the instance is FAILED, the Attempts box has an Error Message indicating the reason for failure under the latest attempt. For example, Status Code: 403, AWS Service: Amazon S3, AWS Request ID: 1A3456789ABCD, AWS Error Code: null, AWS Error Message: Forbidden. You can also click on More... in the Details column to view the instance details of this attempt.

To take action on your incomplete or failed component, choose Rerun, Mark Finished, or Cancel.

To monitor the progress of a pipeline using the AWS CLI
To retrieve pipeline instance details, such as a history of the times that a pipeline has run, use the list-runs command. This command enables you to filter the list of runs returned based on either their current status or the date-range in which they were launched. Filtering the results is useful because, depending on the pipeline's age and scheduling, the run history can be large.
The following example retrieves information for all runs.
aws datapipeline list-runs --pipeline-id df-00627471SOVYZEXAMPLE
The following example retrieves information for all runs that have completed.
aws datapipeline list-runs --pipeline-id df-00627471SOVYZEXAMPLE --status finished
The following example retrieves information for all runs launched in the specified time frame.
aws datapipeline list-runs --pipeline-id df-00627471SOVYZEXAMPLE --start-interval "2013-09-02","2013-09-11"