Changing Visual Layout in Amazon QuickSight
When you create an analysis, you see a workspace that contains one full-sized visual. You can add more visuals to the workspace by choosing Add, then Add visual. Visuals created after May 2018 are smaller in size, fitting two on each row. You can resize the visuals and drag them to rearrange them. 
If you change a visual to make it considerably smaller, the on-visual editors are hidden so that the chart elements have more room to display. Bar chart visuals can also display fewer data points. To see a resized visual in full pane mode so that on-visual editors and all data points are displayed, use the Maximize option on the on-visual menu. Choose Minimize to return the visual to its original size when you are done.
In some cases, you might resize a visual that uses a legend so that it is taller than it is wide. In such cases, the legend displays on the bottom of the chart if it had been displaying on the right-hand side.
If you reduce the size of the browser window, Amazon QuickSight resizes and if necessary reorders visuals for optimal display. For example, smaller visuals that were side by side might be displayed sequentially. The original layout is restored when the size of the browser window is increased again.
Note: 
Changing Visual Location
On the analysis page, choose the move handle on the visual that you want to relocate. Drag the visual to where you want it.


Changing Visual Size
To change visual size, on the analysis page choose the resize handle on the visual that you want to resize. Drag to change the visual's dimensions.


Editing a Resized Visual
Use the following procedure to open a resized visual in full pane mode for editing.


On the analysis page, choose the visual that you want to edit.


Choose the on-visual menu at the upper-right corner of the visual, and then choose Maximize.



The visual opens in full pane mode, displaying the on-visual editors if they were hidden.

Edit the visual. When you are done, choose the on-visual menu at the upper-right corner of the visual, and then choose Minimize.
