Using Line Charts
Use line charts to compare changes in measure values over period of time, for the following scenarios: 
 One measure over a period of time, for example gross sales by month. 
 Multiple measures over a period of time, for example gross sales and net sales by month. 
 One measure for a dimension over a period of time, for example number of flight delays per day by airline. 
Line charts show the individual values of a set of measures or dimensions against the range displayed by the Y axis. Area line charts differ from regular line charts in that each value is represented by a colored area of the chart instead of just a line, to make it easier to evaluate item values relative to each other.
For example, discount amount by year by region looks like the following in a line chart.

It looks like the following in an area line chart.

Each line on the chart represents a measure value across a period of time. When you have a chart with multiple lines, hover over any line to see a pop-up legend that shows the values for each line for that point in time.

Use line charts to compare changes in values for one or more measures or dimensions over a period of time. 
In regular line charts each value is represented by a line, and in area line charts each value is represented by a colored area of the chart. 
Line charts show up to 2500 data points on the X axis when no color field is selected. When color is populated, line charts show up to 200 data points on the X axis and up to 25 data points for color. For more information about how data that falls outside the display limit for this visual type, see Display Limits in Visuals.
The icons for line charts are as follows:


Line Chart Features
Use the following table to understand the features supported by line charts.




Feature
Supported?
Comments
For More Information




Changing the legend display
Yes

Customizing the Visual Legend


Changing the title display
Yes

Customizing a Visual Title


Changing the axis range
Yes
You can set the range for the Y axis.
Changing the Visual Scale with the Axis Range


Changing the visual colors
Yes

Changing Visual Colors in Amazon QuickSight


Focusing on or excluding elements
Yes, with exceptions
You can focus on or exclude any line on the chart, except in the following cases: [See the AWS documentation website for more details] In these cases, you can only focus on a line, not exclude it.
Focusing on Visual Elements Excluding Visual Elements


Sorting
Yes, with exceptions
You can sort data for numeric measures in the X axis and Value field wells. Other data is automatically sorted in ascending order.
Sorting Visual Data in Amazon QuickSight


Field aggregation
Yes
You must apply aggregation to the field you choose for the value, and can't apply aggregation to the fields you choose for the X axis and color.
Changing Field Aggregation


Adding drill-downs
Yes
You can add drill-down levels to the X axis and Color field wells.
Adding Drill-Downs to Visual Data in Amazon QuickSight



Creating a Line Chart
Use the following procedure to create a line chart.


On the analysis page, choose Visualize on the tool bar.


Choose Add on the application bar, and then choose Add visual.


On the Visual types pane, choose one of the line chart icons.


From the Fields list pane, drag the fields that you want to use to the appropriate field wells. Typically, you want to use dimension or measure fields as indicated by the target field well. If you choose to use a dimension field as a measure, the Count aggregate function is automatically applied to it to create a numeric value.
    To create a single-measure line chart, drag a dimension to the X axis field well and one measure to the Value field well.
    To create a multi-measure line chart, drag a dimension to the X axis field well and two or more measures to the Value field well. Leave the Color field well empty.
    To create a multi-dimension line chart, drag a dimension to the X axis field well, one measure to the Value field well, and one dimension to the Color field well.


(Optional) Add drill-down layers by dragging one or more additional fields to the X axis or Color field wells. For more information about adding drill-downs, see Adding Drill-Downs to Visual Data in Amazon QuickSight. 

