Using Pie Charts
Use pie charts to compare values for items in a dimension.
Each wedge in a pie chart represents one item in the dimension. Wedge size represents the proportion of the value for the selected measure that the item represents compared to the whole for the dimension. Pie charts are best when precision isn't important and there are few items in the dimension.
Pie charts show up to 20 data points for group/color. For more information about how we handle data that falls outside display limits, see Display Limits in Visuals.
The icon for a pie chart is as follows:

Pie Chart Features
Use the following table to understand the features supported by pie charts.




Feature
Supported?
Comments
For More Information




Changing the legend display
Yes

Customizing the Visual Legend


Changing the title display
Yes

Customizing a Visual Title


Changing the axis range
Not applicable

Changing the Visual Scale with the Axis Range


Changing the visual colors
Yes

Changing Visual Colors in Amazon QuickSight


Focusing on or excluding elements
Yes, with exceptions
You can focus on or exclude a wedge in a pie chart, except when you are using a date field as a dimension. In that case, you can only focus on a wedge, not exclude it.
Focusing on Visual Elements Excluding Visual Elements


Sorting
Yes
You can sort on the field you choose for the value or the group/color.
Sorting Visual Data in Amazon QuickSight


Field aggregation
Yes
You must apply aggregation to the field you choose for the value, and can't apply aggregation to the field you choose for group/color.
Changing Field Aggregation


Adding drill-downs
Yes
You can add drill-down levels to the Group/Color field well.
Adding Drill-Downs to Visual Data in Amazon QuickSight



Create a Pie Chart
Use the following procedure to create a pie chart.


On the analysis page, choose Visualize on the tool bar.


Choose Add on the application bar, and then choose Add visual.


On the Visual types pane, choose the pie chart icon.


From the Fields list pane, drag the fields that you want to use to the appropriate field wells. Typically, you want to use dimension or measure fields as indicated by the target field well. If you choose to use a dimension field as a measure, the Count aggregate function is automatically applied to it to create a numeric value.


To create a pie chart, drag a measure to the Value field well and a dimension to the Group/Color field well.

(Optional) Add drill-down layers by dragging one or more additional fields to the Group/Color field well. For more information about adding drill-downs, see Adding Drill-Downs to Visual Data in Amazon QuickSight. 
