Using Pivot Table
Use pivot tables to show measure values for the intersection of two dimensions.
After you populate a pivot table, you can change row sort order and also apply statistical functions for further analysis. You can cluster pivot table columns and rows to show values for subcategories grouped by related dimension. You can also specify multiple measures to populate the cell values of the table, so that you can see a range of data in a single table. 
Heat maps and pivot tables display data in a similar tabular fashion. Use a heat map if you want to identify trends and outliers, as the use of color makes these easier to spot. Use a pivot table if you want to analyze data on the visual.
To create a pivot table, choose at least two fields of any data type. Amazon QuickSight creates the table and populates the cell values with the count of the column value for the intersecting row value. Typically, you would choose a measure and two dimensions measurable by that measure.
Pivot tables show up to 1000 data points for rows and up to 200 data points for columns. For more information about how we handle data that falls outside display limits, see Display Limits in Visuals.
To easily transpose the fields used by the rows and columns of the pivot table, choose the orientation icon:

The icon for a pivot table is as follows:

Pivot Table Features
Pivot tables don't display a legend.
You can't hide or display the title on a pivot table visual.
Use the following table to understand the features supported by pivot tables.




Feature
Supported?
Comments
For More Information




Changing the legend display
No

Customizing the Visual Legend


Changing the title display
No

Customizing a Visual Title


Changing the axis range
Not applicable

Changing the Visual Scale with the Axis Range


Changing the visual colors
No

Changing Visual Colors in Amazon QuickSight


Focusing on or excluding elements
Yes, with exceptions
You can focus on or exclude any column or row, except when you are using a date field as one of the dimensions. In that case, you can only focus on the column or row that uses the date dimension, not exclude it.
Focusing on Visual Elements Excluding Visual Elements


Sorting
Yes
You can sort by the field you choose for the columns.
Sorting Visual Data in Amazon QuickSight


Field aggregation
Yes
You must apply aggregation to the field or fields you choose for the value, and can't apply aggregation to the fields you choose for the rows or columns. If you choose to create a multi-measure pivot table, you can apply different types of aggregation to the different measures. For example, you could show the sum of the sales amount and the maximum discount amount.
Changing Field Aggregation


Adding drill-downs
No

Adding Drill-Downs to Visual Data in Amazon QuickSight



Creating a Pivot Table
Use the following procedure to create a pivot table.


On the analysis page, choose Visualize on the tool bar.


Choose Add on the application bar, and then choose Add visual.


On the Visual types pane, choose the pivot table icon.


From the Fields list pane, drag the fields that you want to use to the appropriate field wells. Typically, you want to use dimension or measure fields as indicated by the target field well. If you choose to use a dimension field as a measure, the Count aggregate function is automatically applied to it to create a numeric value.
    To create a single-measure pivot table, drag a dimension to the Rows field well, a dimension to the Columns field well, and a measure to the Values field well.
    To create a multi-measure pivot table, drag a dimension to the Rows field well, a dimension to the Columns field well, and two or more measures to the Values field well.
    To create a clustered pivot table, drag one or more dimensions to the Rows field well, one or more dimensions to the Columns field well, and a measure to the Values field well.


You can also select multiple fields for all of the pivot table field wells if you want to, to combine the multi-measure and clustered pivot table approaches.