Using Scatter Plots
Use scatter plots to visualize two or three measures for a dimension.
Each bubble on the scatter plot represents one item in the dimension. The X and Y axes represent two different measures that apply to the dimension. A bubble appears on the chart at the point where the values for the two measures for an item in the dimension intersect. Optionally, you can also use bubble size to represent an additional measure. 
Scatter plots show up to 50 data points for the intersection of the X and Y axis values for visuals that don't use group/color. For visuals that do use group/color, scatter plots show up to 2500 data points. For more information about how we handle data that falls outside display limits, see Display Limits in Visuals.
The icon for a scatter plot is as follows:

Scatter Plot Features
Use the following table to understand the features supported by scatter plots.




Feature
Supported?
Comments
For More Information




Changing the legend display
Yes, with exceptions
Scatter plots display a legend if you have the Group/Color field well populated.
Customizing the Visual Legend


Changing the title display
Yes

Customizing a Visual Title


Changing the axis range
Yes
You can set the range for both the X and Y axes.
Changing the Visual Scale with the Axis Range


Changing the visual colors
Yes

Changing Visual Colors in Amazon QuickSight


Focusing on or excluding elements
Yes, with exceptions
You can focus on or exclude a bubble in a scatter plot, except when you are using a date field as a dimension. In that case, you can only focus on a bubble, not exclude it.
Focusing on Visual Elements Excluding Visual Elements


Sorting
No

Sorting Visual Data in Amazon QuickSight


Field aggregation
Yes
You must apply aggregation to the fields you choose for the X axis, Y axis, and size, and can't apply aggregation to the field you choose for the group/color.
Changing Field Aggregation


Adding drill-downs
Yes
You can add drill-down levels to the Group/Color field well.
Adding Drill-Downs to Visual Data in Amazon QuickSight



Creating a Scatter Plot
Use the following procedure to create a scatter plot.


On the analysis page, choose Visualize on the tool bar.


Choose Add on the application bar, and then choose Add visual.


On the Visual types pane, choose the scatter plot icon.


From the Fields list pane, drag the fields that you want to use to the appropriate field wells. Typically, you want to use dimension or measure fields as indicated by the target field well. If you choose to use a dimension field as a measure, the Count aggregate function is automatically applied to it to create a numeric value.


To create a scatter plot, drag a measure to the X axis field well, a measure to the Y axis field well, and a dimension to the Group/Color field well. To represent another measure with bubble size, drag that measure to the Size field well.

(Optional) Add drill-down layers by dragging one or more additional fields to the Group/Color field well. For more information about adding drill-downs, see Adding Drill-Downs to Visual Data in Amazon QuickSight. 
