Using Tabular Reports
Use tabular reports to see a customized table view of your data.
To create a table visual, choose at least one field of any data type. You can add as many columns as you need. Plus, you can add calculated columns. 
The icon for a table is as follows.

Tabular Report Features
Tabular reports don't display a legend. You can hide or display the title on a tabular report. You can also hide or display totals, and choose to show totals at the top or the bottom of the table.
Use the following table to understand the features supported by tabular reports. 




Feature
Supported?
For More Information




Changing the legend display
No
Customizing the Visual Legend


Changing the title display
Yes
Customizing a Visual Title


Sorting
Yes
Sorting Visual Data in Amazon QuickSight


Calculated fields and aggregations
Yes
Changing Field Aggregation


Adding drill-downs
No
Adding Drill-Downs to Visual Data in Amazon QuickSight


Show/hide total
Yes
Use Totals on a Tabular Report



Use Totals on a Tabular Report
You can show or hide totals on a tabular report. Use the on-visual menu on the top right of the visual to access the option to Show Totals or Hide Totals.

You can show totals at the top or the bottom of the visual. Use the on-visual menu to access the option for Format visual. If you enable Show Totals, you will see the options for Top and Bottom locations.

Tabular reports can display up to 200 columns.
Creating a Tabular Report
Use the following procedure to create a tabular report (a table visual).


On the analysis page, choose Visualize on the tool bar.


Choose Add on the application bar, and then choose Add visual.


On the Visual types pane, choose the table icon.


From the Fields list pane, choose the fields that you want to use. If you want to add a calculated field, choose Add on the application bar, and then choose Add calculated field.


To create a non-aggregated view of the data, add fields only to the Value field well. This shows data without any aggregations.
To create an aggregated view of the data, choose the fields that you want to aggregate by, and then add them to the Group by field well.