Step 1: Set Up an AWS Account and Create an Administrator User
Before you use Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics for the first time, complete the following tasks:


Sign Up for AWS


Create an IAM User


Sign Up for AWS
When you sign up for Amazon Web Services (AWS), your AWS account is automatically signed up for all services in AWS, including Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics. You are charged only for the services that you use.
With Kinesis Data Analytics, you pay only for the resources you use.  If you are a new AWS customer, you can get started with Kinesis Data Analytics for free. For more information, see AWS Free Usage Tier.
If you already have an AWS account, skip to the next task. If you don't have an AWS account, perform the steps in the following procedure to create one.
To create an AWS account


Open https://portal.aws.amazon.com/billing/signup.


Follow the online instructions.


Part of the sign-up procedure involves receiving a phone call and entering a verification code on the phone keypad.
Note your AWS account ID because you'll need it for the next task.
Create an IAM User
Services in AWS, such as Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics, require that you provide credentials when you access them so that the service can determine whether you have permissions to access the resources owned by that service. The console requires your password. You can create access keys for your AWS account to access the AWS CLI or API. However, we don't recommend that you access AWS using the credentials for your AWS account. Instead, we recommend that you use AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM). Create an IAM user, add the user to an IAM group with administrative permissions, and then grant administrative permissions to the IAM user that you created. You can then access AWS using a special URL and that IAM user's credentials.
If you signed up for AWS, but you haven't created an IAM user for yourself, you can create one using the IAM console.
The Getting Started exercises in this guide assume that you have a user (adminuser) with administrator privileges. Follow the procedure to create adminuser in your account.
To create an administrator user and sign in to the console


Create an administrator user called adminuser in your AWS account. For instructions, see Creating Your First IAM User and Administrators Group in the IAM User Guide.


A user can sign in to the AWS Management Console using a special URL. For more information, How Users Sign In to Your Account in the IAM User Guide.


For more information about IAM, see the following:
 AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)
 Getting Started
 IAM User Guide
Next Step
Step 2: Set Up the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI)