Monitoring a Channel Using the AWS Elemental MediaLive Console
You can view the activity of your channel and its current state.
To monitor activity on a channel (AWS Elemental MediaLive console)


Open the MediaLive console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/medialive/. 


In the navigation pane, choose Channels. (For information about the buttons on the page, see Editing a Channel, Starting, Stopping, and Pausing an AWS Elemental MediaLive Channel, and Creating a Channel by Cloning.)


The Channels page shows a list of your channels. Each line in the list provides basic information about the channel, including its state:
    Creating.
    Deleting.
    Idle: The channel isn't running. For information about charges that you accrue when a channel is idle, see Pricing.
    Recovering: One or both pipelines in the channel failed, but MediaLive is restarting it. 
    Running.
    Starting.
    Stopping.
    Updating: You modified a channel, and MediaLive is updating the channel information.


To view more details about a channel, choose the name of that channel. The Channel details page appears.


Viewing Status Information
For basic status information, look at the Status pane.
For information about the inputs in the channel, choose the Details tab.
For detailed information about the status, choose the Health tab. This tab provides information for the pipelines in the channel: 
 Pipeline 0 and pipeline 1, if the channel is set up as a standard channel and therefore has two pipelines
 Pipeline 0, if the channel is set up as a single-pipeline channel
You can specify the period of time for the health information.
Viewing Alerts
AWS Elemental MediaLive generates alerts for a channel when an issue or potential issue occurs in either pipeline in a channel. These alerts are displayed in two ways:
 On the right side of the Status pane, there is a count of active alerts for each pipeline. 
 On the Alerts tab, details about each alert are displayed. 
If the alert is still active, the Cleared column is blank. If the alert has cleared, the column shows the timestamp for when it cleared.
Handling Alerts
When an alert occurs, look at the Alerts tab to determine possible causes of the issue. Take steps to resolve the issue. 
After you resolve the issue, AWS Elemental MediaLive automatically clears the alert. 
If you stop a channel, alerts always automatically clear.