Enabling Blackout
Follow this procedure if you want to enable the blackout feature.
To enable blackout


In the channel that you are creating, in the navigation pane, choose General settings. 


For Avail configuration, set Avail settings, if you have not already done so: 
    SCTE-35 splice insert (default): Select this mode if the input uses splice inserts to indicate ad avails. The input might also contain messages for others events such as chapters or programs. 
    SCTE-35 time signal APOS: Select this mode if the input contains time signals of segmentation type Placement opportunity. The input might also contain messages for other events such as chapters or programs. 
The mode identifies which of all possible events are treated as triggers for “ad avails” and as triggers for “blackouts.” In turn, these triggers affect how manifests are decorated, when video is blanked, and when video is blacked out. 


For Ad avail offset, set a value, if desired. See the help for this field.


For web_delivery_allowed_flag and no_regional_blackout_flag, choose appropriate values. For information about these fields, see Triggers for Blackout.
    Follow (default): Observe the restriction and blank the content for the ad avail event.
    Ignore: Ignore the restriction and do not blank the content for the ad avail event.
Warning
Never set both fields to Ignore.


In Blackout slate, in State, choose Enabled.


For Blackout slate image, choose the appropriate value:
    Disable: To use a plain black image for blackout.
    Avail blanking image: To use a special image for blackout. In the URL field, enter the path to a file in an Amazon S3 bucket. The file must be of type .bmp or .png. Also enter the user name and Systems Manager password parameter for accessing the S3 bucket. For information about this key, see About the Feature for Creating Password Parameters.


If you want to enable network end blackout (in other words, black out content when network transmission has ended and remove blackout only when network transmission resumes), continue reading. If you don't want to enable it, you have now finished setting up. 


For Network end blackout, choose Enabled.


For Network end blackout image, choose the appropriate value:
    Disable: To use a plain black image for blackout.
    Network end blackout image: To use a special image for network end blackout. In the URL field, enter the path to a file in an Amazon S3 bucket. The file must be of type .bmp or .png. Also enter the user name and Systems Manager password for accessing the S3 bucket. See About the Feature for Creating Password Parameters.


For Additional settings, in Network ID, type the EIDR ID of the network in the format 10.nnnn/xxxx- xxxx- xxxx- xxxx-xxxx-c (case insensitive). Only network end events with this ID will trigger blackout.

