Enabling website hosting
When you configure a bucket as a static website, you must enable static website hosting, configure an index document, and set permissions:
Follow these steps to enable website hosting for your Amazon S3 bucket using the Amazon S3 console. For more information about next steps, see Configuring an index document and Setting permissions for website access. To configure your website with a custom domain, see Example walkthroughs - hosting websites on Amazon S3.
To enable static website hosting


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon S3 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/.


In the Bucket name list, choose the bucket that you want to use for your static website.


Choose Properties.


Choose Static website hosting.


Choose Use this bucket to host a website.


Enter the name of your index document. 


The index document name is typically index.html. The index document name is case sensitive and must exactly match the file name of the HTML index document that you plan to upload to your S3 bucket. For more information, see Configuring an index document.

(Optional) If you want to add a custom error document, in the Error document box, enter the key name for the error document (for example, error.html). 

The error document name is case sensitive and must exactly match the file name of the HTML error document that you plan to upload to your S3 bucket. For more information, see (Optional) configuring a custom error document.

(Optional) If you want to specify advanced redirection rules, in Edit redirection rules, use XML to describe the rules.

For more information, see Configuring advanced conditional redirects.

Under Static website hosting, note the Endpoint.

The Endpoint is the Amazon S3 website endpoint for your bucket. After you finish configuring your bucket as a static website, you can use this endpoint to test your website.

Choose Save.

Next, you must configure your index document and set permissions. For more information, see Configuring an index document and Setting permissions for website access. You can also optionally configure an error document, web traffic logging, or a redirect.