Configuring a static website
You can configure an Amazon S3 bucket to function like a website. This example walks you through the steps of hosting a website on Amazon S3.
Note
Amazon S3 does not support HTTPS access to the website. If you want to use HTTPS, you can use Amazon CloudFront to serve a static website hosted on Amazon S3.
For more information, see How do I use CloudFront to serve a static website hosted on Amazon S3? and  Requiring HTTPS for communication between viewers and CloudFront.
Topics
 Step 1: Create a bucket
 Step 2: Enable static website hosting
 Step 3: Edit block public access settings
 Step 4: Add a bucket policy that makes your bucket content publicly available
 Step 5: Configure an index document
 Step 6: Test your website endpoint
 Step 7: Clean up
Step 1: Create a bucket
The following instructions provide an overview of how to create your buckets for website hosting. For detailed, step-by-step instructions on creating a bucket, see How Do I Create an S3 Bucket? in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Console User Guide.
To create a bucket


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon S3 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/.


Choose Create bucket.


Enter the Bucket name (for example, example.com).


Choose the Region where you want to create the bucket. 


Choose a Region close to you to minimize latency and costs, or to address regulatory requirements. The Region that you choose determines your Amazon S3 website endpoint. For more information, see Website endpoints.

To accept the default settings and create the bucket, choose Create.

Step 2: Enable static website hosting
After you create a bucket, you can enable static website hosting for your bucket. You can create a new bucket or use an existing bucket.
To enable static website hosting


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon S3 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/.


In the Bucket name list, choose the bucket that you want to use for your static website.


Choose Properties.


Choose Static website hosting.


Choose Use this bucket to host a website.


Enter the name of your index document. 


The index document name is typically index.html. The index document name is case sensitive and must exactly match the file name of the HTML index document that you plan to upload to your S3 bucket. For more information, see Configuring an index document.

(Optional) If you want to add a custom error document, in the Error document box, enter the key name for the error document (for example, error.html). 

The error document name is case sensitive and must exactly match the file name of the HTML error document that you plan to upload to your S3 bucket. For more information, see (Optional) configuring a custom error document.

(Optional) If you want to specify advanced redirection rules, in Edit redirection rules, use XML to describe the rules.

For more information, see Configuring advanced conditional redirects.

Under Static website hosting, note the Endpoint.

The Endpoint is the Amazon S3 website endpoint for your bucket. After you finish configuring your bucket as a static website, you can use this endpoint to test your website.

Choose Save.

Step 3: Edit block public access settings
By default, Amazon S3 blocks public access to your account and buckets. If you want to use a bucket to host a static website, you can use these steps to edit your block public access settings. 
Warning
Before you complete this step, review Using Amazon S3 Block Public Access to ensure that you understand and accept the risks involved with allowing public access. When you turn off block public access settings to make your bucket public, anyone on the internet can access your bucket. We recommend that you block all public access to your buckets.


Open the Amazon S3 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/.


Choose the name of the bucket that you have configured as a static website.


Choose Permissions.


Choose Edit.


Clear Block all public access, and choose Save.
Warning
Before you complete this step, review Using Amazon S3 Block Public Access to ensure you understand and accept the risks involved with allowing public access. When you turn off block public access settings to make your bucket public, anyone on the internet can access your bucket. We recommend that you block all public access to your buckets.



In the confirmation box, enter confirm, and then choose Confirm.



Under S3 buckets, the Access for your bucket updates to Objects can be public. You can now add a bucket policy to make the objects in the bucket publicly readable. If the Access still displays as Bucket and objects not public, you might have to edit the block public access settings for your account before adding a bucket policy.
Step 4: Add a bucket policy that makes your bucket content publicly available
After you edit S3 Block Public Access settings, you can add a bucket policy to grant public read access to your bucket. When you grant public read access, anyone on the internet can access your bucket.
Important
The following policy is an example only and allows full access to the contents of your bucket. Before you proceed with this step, review How can I secure the files in my Amazon S3 bucket? to ensure that you understand the best practices for securing the files in your S3 bucket and risks involved in granting public access.


Under Buckets, choose the name of your bucket.


Choose Permissions.


Choose Bucket Policy.


To grant public read access for your website, copy the following bucket policy, and paste it in the Bucket policy editor.


{
       "Version": "2012-10-17",
       "Statement": [
           {
               "Sid": "PublicReadGetObject",
               "Effect": "Allow",
               "Principal": "*",
               "Action": [
                   "s3:GetObject"
               ],
               "Resource": [
                   "arn:aws:s3:::example.com/*"
               ]
           }
       ]
   }

Update the Resource to include your bucket name.

In the preceding example bucket policy, example.com is the bucket name. To use this bucket policy with your own bucket, you must update this name to match your bucket name.

Choose Save.

A warning appears indicating that the bucket has public access. In Bucket Policy, a Public label appears.
If you see an error that says Policy has invalid resource, confirm that the bucket name in the bucket policy matches your bucket name. For information about adding a bucket policy, see How Do I Add an S3 Bucket Policy?
If you get an Error - Access denied warning and the Bucket policy editor does not allow you to save the bucket policy, check your account-level and bucket-level block public access settings to confirm that you allow public access to the bucket.
Step 5: Configure an index document
When you enable static website hosting for your bucket, you enter the name of the index document (for example, index.html). After you enable static website hosting for the bucket, you upload an HTML file with this index document name to your bucket.
To configure the index document

Create an index.html file.

If you don't have an index.html file, you can use the following HTML to create one:
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" >
   <head>
       <title>My Website Home Page</title>
   </head>
   <body>
     <h1>Welcome to my website</h1>
     <p>Now hosted on Amazon S3!</p>
   </body>
   </html>

Save the index file locally with the exact index document name that you entered when you enabled static website hosting for your bucket (for example, index.html).

The index document file name must exactly match the index document name that you enter in the Static website hosting dialog box. The index document name is case sensitive. For example, if you enter index.html for the Index document name in the Static website hosting dialog box, your index document file name must also be index.html and not Index.html.


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon S3 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/.


In the Buckets list, choose the name of the bucket that you want to use to host a static website.


Enable static website hosting for your bucket, and enter the exact name of your index document (for example, index.html). For more information, see Enabling website hosting.


After enabling static website hosting, proceed to step 6. 

To upload the index document to your bucket, do one of the following:
    Drag and drop the index file into the console bucket listing.
    Choose Upload, and follow the prompts to choose and upload the index file.

For step-by-step instructions, see How Do I Upload Files and Folders to an Amazon S3 Bucket? in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Console User Guide.

(Optional) Upload other website content to your bucket.

Step 6: Test your website endpoint
After you configure static website hosting for your bucket, you can test your website endpoint.
Note
Amazon S3 does not support HTTPS access to the website. If you want to use HTTPS, you can use Amazon CloudFront to serve a static website hosted on Amazon S3.
For more information, see How do I use CloudFront to serve a static website hosted on Amazon S3? and Requiring HTTPS for communication between viewers and CloudFront.
To test your website endpoint
If you noted your website endpoint when you enabled static website hosting, to test your website, enter the website endpoint in your browser. If your browser displays your index.html page, the website was successfully deployed. For more information, see Amazon S3 Website Endpoints.
If you need to get your website endpoint before testing, follow these steps:


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon S3 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/.


In Buckets list, choose the name of the bucket that you want to use to host a static website.


Choose Properties.


Choose Static website hosting.


To test your website endpoint, next to Endpoint, choose your website endpoint.


If your browser displays your index.html page, the website was successfully deployed.
You now have a website hosted on Amazon S3. This website is available at the Amazon S3 website endpoint. However, you might have a domain, such as example.com, that you want to use to serve the content from the website you created. You might also want to use Amazon S3 root domain support to serve requests for both http://www.example.com and http://example.com. This requires additional steps. For an example, see Configuring a static website using a custom domain registered with Route 53. 
Step 7: Clean up
If you created your static website only as a learning exercise, delete the AWS resources that you allocated so that you no longer accrue charges. After you delete your AWS resources, your website is no longer available. For more information, see How Do I Delete an S3 Bucket? in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Console User Guide.