Metrics configurations for buckets
With Amazon CloudWatch request metrics for Amazon S3, you can receive 1-minute CloudWatch metrics, set CloudWatch alarms, and access CloudWatch dashboards to view near-real-time operations and performance of your Amazon S3 storage. For applications that depend on cloud storage, these metrics let you quickly identify and act on operational issues. When enabled, these 1-minute metrics are available at the Amazon S3 bucket-level, by default.
If you want to get the CloudWatch request metrics for the objects in a bucket, you must create a metrics configuration for the bucket. You can also define a filter for the metrics collected using a shared prefix or object tags. This allows you to align metrics filters to specific business applications, workflows, or internal organizations.
For more information about the CloudWatch metrics that are available and the differences between storage and request metrics, see Monitoring metrics with Amazon CloudWatch.
Keep the following in mind when using metrics configurations:
 You can have a maximum of 1,000 metrics configurations per bucket.
 You can choose which objects in a bucket to include in metrics configurations by using filters. Filtering on a shared prefix or object tag allows you to align metrics filters to specific business applications, workflows, or internal organizations. To request metrics for the entire bucket, create a metrics configuration without a filter.
 Metrics configurations are necessary only to enable request metrics. Bucket-level daily storage metrics are always turned on, and are provided at no additional cost. Currently, it's not possible to get daily storage metrics for a filtered subset of objects.
 Each metrics configuration enables the full set of available request metrics. Operation-specific metrics (such as PostRequests) are reported only if there are requests of that type for your bucket or your filter.
 Request metrics are reported for object-level operations. They are also reported for operations that list bucket contents, like GET Bucket (List Objects), GET Bucket Object Versions, and List Multipart Uploads, but they are not reported for other operations on buckets.
 Request metrics support filtering by prefixes, but storage metrics do not.
Best-effort CloudWatch metrics delivery
CloudWatch metrics are delivered on a best-effort basis. Most requests for an Amazon S3 object that have request metrics result in a data point being sent to CloudWatch.
The completeness and timeliness of metrics is not guaranteed. The data point for a particular request might be returned with a timestamp that is later than when the request was actually processed. Or the data point for a minute might be delayed before being available through CloudWatch, or it might not be delivered at all. CloudWatch request metrics give you an idea of the nature of traffic against your bucket in near-real time. It is not meant to be a complete accounting of all requests.
It follows from the best-effort nature of this feature that the reports available at the Billing & Cost Management Dashboard might include one or more access requests that do not appear in the bucket metrics.
Filtering metrics configurations
When working with CloudWatch metric configurations, you have the option of filtering the configuration into groups of related objects within a single bucket. You can filter objects in a bucket for inclusion in a metrics configuration based on one or more of the following elements:
 Object key name prefix – Although the Amazon S3 data model is a flat structure, you can infer hierarchy by using a prefix. The Amazon S3 console supports these prefixes with the concept of folders. If you filter by prefix, objects that have the same prefix are included in the metrics configuration.
 Tag – You can add tags, which are key-value name pairs, to objects. Tags help you find and organize objects easily. You can also use tags as a filter for metrics configurations.
If you specify a filter, only requests that operate on single objects can match the filter and be included in the reported metrics. Requests like Delete Multiple Objects and List requests don't return any metrics for configurations with filters.
To request more complex filtering, choose two or more elements. Only objects that have all of those elements are included in the metrics configuration. If you don't set filters, all of the objects in the bucket are included in the metrics configuration.
How to add metrics configurations
You can add metrics configurations to a bucket through the Amazon S3 console, with the AWS CLI, or with the Amazon S3 REST API. For information about how to do this in the AWS Management Console, see the How Do I Configure Request Metrics for an S3 Bucket? in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Console User Guide.
To add metrics configurations using the AWS CLI


Install and set up the AWS CLI. For instructions, see Getting Set Up with the AWS Command Line Interface in the AWS Command Line Interface User Guide.


Open a terminal.


Run the following command to add a metrics configuration.


aws s3api put-bucket-metrics-configuration --endpoint https://s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com --bucket bucket-name --id metrics-config-id --metrics-configuration '{"Id":"metrics-config-id","Filter":{"Prefix":"prefix1"}}'

To verify that the configuration was added, run the following command.

aws s3api get-bucket-metrics-configuration --endpoint https://s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com --bucket bucket-name --id metrics-config-id
This returns the following response.
{
       "MetricsConfiguration": {
           "Filter": {
               "Prefix": "prefix1"
           },
           "Id": "metrics-config-id"
       }
   }
You can also add metrics configurations programmatically with the Amazon S3 REST API. For more information, see the following topics in the Amazon Simple Storage Service API Reference:
 PUT Bucket Metric Configuration
 GET Bucket Metric Configuration
 List Bucket Metric Configuration
 DELETE Bucket Metric Configuration