Compliance Validation for Amazon S3
The security and compliance of Amazon S3 is assessed by third-party auditors as part of multiple AWS compliance programs, including the following:
 System and Organization Controls (SOC)
 Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)
 Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP)
 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
AWS provides a frequently updated list of AWS services in scope of specific compliance programs at AWS Services in Scope by Compliance Program. 
Third-party audit reports are available for you to download using AWS Artifact. For more information, see Downloading Reports in AWS Artifact. 
For more information about AWS compliance programs, see AWS Compliance Programs.
Your compliance responsibility when using Amazon S3 is determined by the sensitivity of your data, your organization’s compliance objectives, and applicable laws and regulations. If your use of Amazon S3 is subject to compliance with standards like HIPAA, PCI, or FedRAMP, AWS provides resources to help:
 Security and Compliance Quick Start Guides that discuss architectural considerations and steps for deploying security- and compliance-focused baseline environments on AWS. 
 Architecting for HIPAA Security and Compliance whitepaper that outlines how companies use AWS to help them meet HIPAA requirements.
 AWS Compliance Resources provide several different workbooks and guides that might apply to your industry and location.
 AWS Config can be used to assess how well your resource configurations comply with internal practices, industry guidelines, and regulations.
 AWS Security Hub provides you with a comprehensive view of your security state within AWS and helps you check your compliance with security industry standards and best practices. 
 S3 Object Lock can help you meet technical requirements of financial services regulators (such as the SEC, FINRA, and CFTC) that require write once, read many (WORM) data storage for certain types of books and records information. 
  Amazon S3 inventory can help you audit and report on the replication and encryption status of your objects for business, compliance, and regulatory needs.