Getting started with .NET on Elastic Beanstalk
To get started with .NET applications on AWS Elastic Beanstalk, all you need is an application source bundle to upload as your first application version and to deploy to an environment. When you create an environment, Elastic Beanstalk allocates all of the AWS resources needed to run a highly scalable web application.
Launching an environment with a sample .NET application
Elastic Beanstalk provides single page sample applications for each platform as well as more complex examples that show the use of additional AWS resources such as Amazon RDS and language or platform-specific features and APIs.
Samples 



Name
Supported configurations
Environment type
Source
Description




.NET Default
WS 2012 R2 WS 2012 R2 Server Core WS 2012 WS 2008 R2
Web Server
dotnet-asp-v1.zip
ASP.NET web application with a single page configured to be displayed at the website root.


ASP.NET MVC5
WS 2012 R2
Web Server
dotnet-aspmvc5-v1.zip
ASP.NET web application with a classic model-view-control architecture.



Download any of the sample applications and deploy it to Elastic Beanstalk by using the following procedure.
To launch an environment with a sample application (console)


Open the Elastic Beanstalk console, and in the Regions list, select your AWS Region.


In the navigation pane, choose Applications, and then choose an existing application's name in the list or create one.


On the application overview page, choose Create a new environment.



Choose the Web server environment or Worker environment environment tier. You can't change an environment's tier after creation.
Note
The .NET on Windows Server platform doesn't support the worker environment tier.



For Platform, select the platform and platform branch that match the language your application uses.
Note
Elastic Beanstalk supports multiple versions for most of the platforms that are listed. By default, the console selects the recommended version for the platform and platform branch you choose. If your application requires a different version, you can select it here, or choose Configure more options, as described in step 7. For information about supported platform versions, see Elastic Beanstalk supported platforms.


For Application code, choose Sample application.


To further customize your environment, choose Configure more options. You can set the following options only during environment creation:
    Environment name
    Domain name
    Platform version
    VPC
    Tier


You can change the following settings after environment creation, but they require new instances or other resources to be provisioned and can take a long time to apply:
    Instance type, root volume, key pair, and AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) role
    Internal Amazon RDS database
    Load balancer
For details on all available settings, see The create new environment wizard.

Choose Create environment.

Next steps
After you have an environment running an application, you can deploy a new version of the application or a completely different application at any time. Deploying a new application version is very quick because it doesn't require provisioning or restarting EC2 instances.
After you've deployed a sample application or two and are ready to start developing locally, see the next section to set up a .NET development environment.