eb init
Description
Sets default values for Elastic Beanstalk applications created with EB CLI by prompting you with a series of questions.
Note
The values you set with eb init apply only to the current directory and repository on the current computer.
The command doesn't create anything in your Elastic Beanstalk account. To create an Elastic Beanstalk environment, run eb create after running eb init.
Syntax
eb init 
eb init application-name 
Options
If you run eb init without specifying the --platform option, the EB CLI prompts you to enter a value for each setting.
Note
To use eb init to create a new key pair, you must have ssh-keygen installed on your local machine and available from the command line.




Name
Description





-i --interactive
Forces EB CLI to prompt you to provide a value for every eb init command option.  The init command prompts you to provide values for eb init command options that do not have a (default) value. After the first time you run the eb init command in a directory, EB CLI might not prompt you about any command options. Therefore, use the --interactive option when you want to change a setting that you previously set.



-k keyname --keyname keyname
The name of the Amazon EC2 key pair to use with the Secure Shell (SSH) client to securely log in to the Amazon EC2 instances running your Elastic Beanstalk application.



--modules folder-1 folder-2
List of child directories to initialize. Only for use with Compose Environments.



-p platform-version --platform platform-version
The platform version to use. You can specify a platform, a platform and version, a platform branch, a solution stack name, or a solution stack ARN. For example: [See the AWS documentation website for more details] Use eb platform list to get a list of available configurations. Specify the --platform option to skip interactive configuration.  When you specify this option, then EB CLI does not prompt you for values for any other options. Instead, it assumes default values for each option. You can specify options for anything for which you do not want to use default values.



--source codecommit/repository-name/branch-name
CodeCommit repository and branch. See Using the EB CLI with AWS CodeCommit.



-﻿-﻿tags key1=value1[,key2=value2 ...]
Tag your application. Tags are specified as a comma-separated list of key=value pairs. For more details, see Tagging applications.



Common options





CodeBuild support
If you run eb init in a folder that contains a buildspec.yml file, Elastic Beanstalk parses the file for an eb_codebuild_settings entry with options specific to Elastic Beanstalk. For information about CodeBuild support in Elastic Beanstalk, see Using the EB CLI with AWS CodeBuild.
Output
If successful, the command guides you through setting up a new Elastic Beanstalk application through a series of prompts.
Example
The following example request initializes EB CLI and prompts you to enter information about your application. Replace placeholder text with your own values.
```
$ eb init -i
Select a default region
1) us-east-1 : US East (N. Virginia)
2) us-west-1 : US West (N. California)
3) us-west-2 : US West (Oregon)
4) eu-west-1 : Europe (Ireland)
5) eu-central-1 : Europe (Frankfurt)
6) ap-south-1 : Asia Pacific (Mumbai)
7) ap-southeast-1 : Asia Pacific (Singapore)
...
(default is 3): 3
Select an application to use
1) HelloWorldApp
2) NewApp
3) [ Create new Application ]
(default is 3): 3
Enter Application Name
(default is "tmp"):
Application tmp has been created.
It appears you are using PHP. Is this correct?
(y/n): y
Select a platform branch.
1) PHP 7.2 running on 64bit Amazon Linux
2) PHP 7.1 running on 64bit Amazon Linux (Deprecated)
3) PHP 7.0 running on 64bit Amazon Linux (Deprecated)
4) PHP 5.6 running on 64bit Amazon Linux (Deprecated)
5) PHP 5.5 running on 64bit Amazon Linux (Deprecated)
6) PHP 5.4 running on 64bit Amazon Linux (Deprecated)
(default is 1): 1
Do you want to set up SSH for your instances?
(y/n): y
Select a keypair.
1) aws-eb
2) [ Create new KeyPair ]
(default is 2): 1
```