Environment configuration using the Elastic Beanstalk console
You can use the Elastic Beanstalk console to view and modify many configuration options of your environment and its resources. You can customize how the environment behaves during deployments, enable additional features, and modify the instance type and other settings that you chose during environment creation.
To view a summary of your environment's configuration


Open the Elastic Beanstalk console, and in the Regions list, select your AWS Region.


In the navigation pane, choose Environments, and then choose the name of your environment from the list.
Note
If you have many environments, use the search bar to filter the environment list.


In the navigation pane, choose Configuration.


Configuration overview page
The Configuration overview page shows a set of configuration categories. Each configuration category summarizes the current state of a group of related options.
You can choose two views for this page. Turn on Table View to see a list of options grouped by category.

You can search for an option by its name or value by entering search terms into a search box. As you type, the list gets shorter and shows only options that match your search terms.

Turn off Table View to see each category in a separate frame (configuration card).

Choose Edit in a configuration category to get to a related configuration page, where you can see full option values and make changes. When you're done viewing and modifying options, you can choose one of the following actions:
 Cancel – Go back to the environment's dashboard without applying your configuration changes. When you choose Cancel, the console loses any pending changes you made on any configuration category.
You can also cancel your configuration changes by choosing another console page, like Dashboard or Logs. In this case, if there are any pending configuration changes, the console prompts you to confirm that you agree to losing them.
 Review changes – Get a summary of all the pending changes you made in any of the configuration categories. For details, see Review changes page.
 Apply configuration – Apply the changes you made in any of the configuration categories to your environment. In some cases you're prompted to confirm a consequence of one of your configuration decisions.
Review changes page
The Review Changes page displays a table showing all the pending option changes you made in any of the configuration categories and haven't applied to your environment yet. If you removed any options (for example, a custom environment property), a second table shows the removed options.
Both tables list each option as a combination of the Namespace and Option Name with which Elastic Beanstalk identifies it. For details, see Configuration options.
For example, you might make these configuration changes:
 In the Capacity category: Change Instances (Min) from 1 to 2, and Instances (Max) from 2 to 4. This change corresponds to two changes in the aws:autoscaling:asg namespace on the Changed Options list.
 In the Software category:
   Enable the Rotate logs option. This change corresponds to a change in the aws:elasticbeanstalk:hostmanager namespace on the Changed Options list.
   Remove the MY_ENV_PROPERTY environment property. This change corresponds to a single entry for the aws:elasticbeanstalk:application:environment namespace on the Removed Options list.
 In the Managed updates category: Enable the Managed updates option. This single configuration change corresponds to three option changes across two namespaces—the last three items on the Changed Options list.
The following image shows the lists of your configuration changes on the Review Changes page.

When you're done reviewing your changes, you can choose one of the following actions:
 Continue – Go back to the Configuration overview page. You can then continue making changes or apply pending ones.
 Apply configuration – Apply the changes you made in any of the configuration categories to your environment. In some cases you're prompted to confirm a consequence of one of your configuration decisions.