Enabling Elastic Beanstalk enhanced health reporting
New environments created with the latest platform versions include the AWS Elastic Beanstalk health agent, which supports enhanced health reporting. If you create your environment in the Elastic Beanstalk console or with the EB CLI, enhanced health is enabled by default. You can also set your health reporting preference in your application's source code using configuration files.
Enhanced health reporting requires an instance profile and service role with the standard set of permissions. When you create an environment in the Elastic Beanstalk console, Elastic Beanstalk creates the required roles automatically. See Getting started using Elastic Beanstalk for instructions on creating your first environment.
Topics
 Enabling enhanced health reporting using the Elastic Beanstalk console
 Enabling enhanced health reporting using the EB CLI
 Enabling enhanced health reporting using a configuration file
Enabling enhanced health reporting using the Elastic Beanstalk console
To enable enhanced health reporting in a running environment using the Elastic Beanstalk console


Open the Elastic Beanstalk console, and in the Regions list, select your AWS Region.


In the navigation pane, choose Environments, and then choose the name of your environment from the list.
Note
If you have many environments, use the search bar to filter the environment list.


In the navigation pane, choose Configuration.


In the Monitoring configuration category, choose Edit.


Under Health reporting, for System, choose Enhanced.

Note
The options for enhanced health reporting don't appear if you are using an unsupported platform or version.


Choose Apply.


The Elastic Beanstalk console defaults to enhanced health reporting when you create a new environment with a version 2 (v2) platform version. You can disable enhanced health reporting by changing the health reporting option during environment creation.
To disable enhanced health reporting when creating an environment using the Elastic Beanstalk console


Open the Elastic Beanstalk console, and in the Regions list, select your AWS Region.


Create an application or select an existing one.


Create an environment. On the Create a new environment page, before choosing Create environment, choose Configure more options.


In the Monitoring configuration category, choose Edit.


Under Health reporting, for System, choose Basic.



Choose Save.


Enabling enhanced health reporting using the EB CLI
When you create a new environment with the eb create command, the EB CLI enables enhanced health reporting by default and applies the default instance profile and service role.
You can specify a different service role by name by using the --service-role option.
If you have an environment running with basic health reporting on a v2 platform version and you want to switch to enhanced health, follow these steps.
To enable enhanced health on a running environment using the EB CLI

Use the eb config command to open the configuration file in the default text editor.

~/project$ eb config

Locate the aws:elasticbeanstalk:environment namespace in the settings section. Ensure that the value of ServiceRole is not null and that it matches the name of your service role.

aws:elasticbeanstalk:environment:
       EnvironmentType: LoadBalanced
       ServiceRole: aws-elasticbeanstalk-service-role

Under the aws:elasticbeanstalk:healthreporting:system: namespace, change the value of SystemType to enhanced.

aws:elasticbeanstalk:healthreporting:system:
       SystemType: enhanced


Save the configuration file and close the text editor.


The EB CLI starts an environment update to apply your configuration changes. Wait for the operation to complete or press CtrlC to exit safely.


~/project$ eb config
   Printing Status:
   INFO: Environment update is starting.
   INFO: Health reporting type changed to ENHANCED.
   INFO: Updating environment no-role-test's configuration settings.
Enabling enhanced health reporting using a configuration file
You can enable enhanced health reporting by including a configuration file in your source bundle. The following example shows a configuration file that enables enhanced health reporting and assigns the default service and instance profile to the environment:
Example .ebextensions/enhanced-health.config 
option_settings:
  aws:elasticbeanstalk:healthreporting:system:
    SystemType: enhanced
  aws:autoscaling:launchconfiguration:
    IamInstanceProfile: aws-elasticbeanstalk-ec2-role
  aws:elasticbeanstalk:environment:
    ServiceRole: aws-elasticbeanstalk-service-role
If you created your own instance profile or service role, replace the highlighted text with the names of those roles.