Step 3.1: Set Up the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI)
Follow the steps to download and configure the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI).
Important
You don't need the AWS CLI to perform the steps in this Getting Started exercise. However, some of the exercises in this guide use the AWS CLI. You can skip this step and go to Step 3.2: Getting Started Exercise Using the AWS CLI, and then set up the AWS CLI later when you need it.
To set up the AWS CLI

Download and configure the AWS CLI. For instructions, see the following topics in the AWS Command Line Interface User Guide: 



Getting Set Up with the AWS Command Line Interface


Configuring the AWS Command Line Interface



Add a named profile for the administrator user in the AWS CLI config file. You use this profile when executing the AWS CLI commands. For more information about named profiles, see Named Profiles in the AWS Command Line Interface User Guide.

[profile adminuser]
       aws_access_key_id = adminuser access key ID
       aws_secret_access_key = adminuser secret access key
       region = aws-region
For a list of available AWS Regions and those supported by Amazon Polly, see Regions and Endpoints in the Amazon Web Services General Reference.
If you specify one of the Amazon Polly supported regions when you configure the AWS CLI, you can omit the following line from the AWS CLI code examples. If you specify a region not supported by Amazon Polly in your AWS CLI configuration (for example, if you're an existing AWS customer using other services in regions that don't support Amazon Polly), you must include the following line: 
--region polly-supported-aws-region

Verify the setup by typing the following help command at the command prompt: 

aws help
A list of valid AWS commands should appear in the AWS CLI window.
To enable Amazon Polly in the AWS CLI (optional)
If you have previously downloaded and configured the AWS CLI, Amazon Polly may not be available without reconfiguring the AWS CLI. This procedure checks to see if this is necessary and provides instructions if Amazon Polly is not automatically available.

Verify the availability of Amazon Polly by typing the following help command at the command prompt:

aws polly help
If a description of Amazon Polly and a list of valid commands is displayed, appears in the AWS CLI window. If Amazon Polly is available in the AWS CLI and can be used immediately. In this case, you can skip the remainder of this procedure. If this is not displayed, continue with Step 2.


Use one of the two following options to enable Amazon Polly:


Uninstall and reinstall the AWS CLI.
For instructions, see the following topic in the AWS Command Line Interface User Guide: Installing the AWS Command Line Interface.
or


Download the file service-2.json.
At the command prompt, run the following: 
aws configure add-model --service-model file://service-2.json --service-name polly


Reverify the availability of Amazon Polly:


aws polly help
The description of Amazon Polly should be visible.
Next Step
Step 3.2: Getting Started Exercise Using the AWS CLI