Amazon Redshift security overview
Amazon Redshift database security is distinct from other types of Amazon Redshift security. In addition to database security, which is described in this section, Amazon Redshift provides these features to manage security:
  Sign-in credentials — Access to your Amazon Redshift Management Console is controlled by your AWS account privileges. For more information, see Sign-in credentials.
  Access management — To control access to specific Amazon Redshift resources, you define AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) accounts. For more information, see Controlling access to Amazon Redshift resources.
  Cluster security groups — To grant other users inbound access to an Amazon Redshift cluster, you define a cluster security group and associate it with a cluster. For more information, see  Amazon Redshift cluster security groups.
  VPC — To protect access to your cluster by using a virtual networking environment, you can launch your cluster in an Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC). For more information, see Managing clusters in Virtual Private Cloud (VPC).
  Cluster encryption — To encrypt the data in all your user-created tables, you can enable cluster encryption when you launch the cluster. For more information, see Amazon Redshift clusters.
  SSL connections — To encrypt the connection between your SQL client and your cluster, you can use secure sockets layer (SSL) encryption. For more information, see Connect to your cluster using SSL.
  Load data encryption — To encrypt your table load data files when you upload them to Amazon S3, you can use either server-side encryption or client-side encryption. When you load from server-side encrypted data, Amazon S3 handles decryption transparently. When you load from client-side encrypted data, the Amazon Redshift COPY command decrypts the data as it loads the table. For more information, see Uploading encrypted data to Amazon S3.
 Data in transit — To protect your data in transit within the AWS cloud, Amazon Redshift uses hardware accelerated SSL to communicate with Amazon S3 or Amazon DynamoDB for COPY, UNLOAD, backup, and restore operations.
 Column-level access control — To have column-level access control for data in Amazon Redshift , use column-level grant and revoke statements without having to implement views-based access control or use another system.