Step 3: Create a sample Amazon Redshift cluster
Now that you have the prerequisites completed, you can launch your Amazon Redshift cluster.
Important
The cluster that you are about to create is live (and not running in a sandbox). You incur the standard Amazon Redshift usage fees for the cluster until you delete it. If you complete the tutorial described here in one sitting and delete the cluster when you are finished, the total charges are minimal. 
Note
A new console is available for Amazon Redshift. Choose either the New console or the Original console instructions based on the console that you are using. The New console instructions are open by default.
New console
To create an Amazon Redshift cluster


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon Redshift console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshift/.
Important
If you use IAM user credentials, ensure that you have the necessary permissions to perform the cluster operations. For more information, see Controlling access to IAM users in the Amazon Redshift Cluster Management Guide.


At top right, choose the AWS Region in which you want to create the cluster. 


On the navigation menu, choose CLUSTERS, then choose Create cluster. The Create cluster page appears.


In the Cluster configuration section, specify values for Cluster identifier, Node type, and Nodes. 
    Cluster identifier: Enter examplecluster for this tutorial. This identifier must be unique. The identifier must be from 1–63 characters using valid characters as a - z (lowercase only) and - (hyphen). 
    Choose one of the following methods to size your cluster:
Note
The following step describes an Amazon Redshift console that is running in an AWS Region that supports RA3 node types. For a list of AWS Regions that support RA3 node types, see Overview of RA3 node types in the Amazon Redshift Cluster Management Guide. 

If your AWS Region supports RA3 node types, choose either Production or Free trial to answer the question What are you planning to use this cluster for? 

If your organization is eligible, you might be able to create a cluster under the Amazon Redshift free trial program. To do this, choose Free trial to create a configuration with the dc2.large node type. For more information about choosing a free trial, see Amazon Redshift free trial. 
  If you don't know how large to size your cluster, choose Help me choose. Doing this starts a sizing calculator that asks you questions about the size and query characteristics of the data that you plan to store in your data warehouse. 
If you know the required size of your cluster (that is, the node type and number of nodes), choose I'll choose. Then choose the Node type and number of Nodes to size your cluster for the proof of concept.
Choose Node type: dc2.large with Nodes: 2 for this tutorial.


In the Database configurations section, specify values for Database name (optional), Database port (optional), Master user name, and Master user password. This tutorial uses these values: 
    Database name (optional): Enter dev.
    Database port (optional): Enter 5439.
    Master user name: Enter awsuser.
    Master user password: Enter a value for the password.


Optionally, in the Cluster permissions section, for Available IAM roles choose the IAM role that you previously created, myRedshiftRole. Then choose Add IAM role. 


Optionally, in the Additional configurations section, turn off Use defaults to modify Network and security, Database configurations, Maintenance, Monitoring, and Backup settings.


Choose Create cluster. 


Original console
To launch an Amazon Redshift cluster


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon Redshift console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshift/.
Important
If you use IAM user credentials, ensure that the user has the necessary permissions to perform the cluster operations. For more information, see Controlling access to IAM users in the Amazon Redshift Cluster Management Guide.


In the main menu, select the AWS Region in which you want to create the cluster. For the purposes of this tutorial, select US West (Oregon).



On the Amazon Redshift Dashboard, choose Quick launch cluster.


The Amazon Redshift Dashboard looks similar to the following.


On the Cluster specifications page, enter the following values and then choose Launch cluster:
    Node type: Choose dc2.large.
    Number of compute nodes: Keep the default value of 2.
    Cluster identifier: Enter the value examplecluster.
    Master user name: Keep the default value of awsuser.
    Master user password and Confirm password: Enter a password for the master user account.
    Database port: Accept the default value of 5439.
    Available IAM roles: Choose myRedshiftRole. 

Quick launch automatically creates a default database named dev.

Note
Quick launch uses the default virtual private cloud (VPC) for your AWS Region. If a default VPC doesn't exist, Quick launch returns an error. If you don't have a default VPC, you can use the standard Launch Cluster wizard to use a different VPC. For more information, see Creating a cluster by using launch cluster.


A confirmation page appears and the cluster takes a few minutes to finish. Choose Close to return to the list of clusters.



On the Clusters page, choose the cluster that you just launched and review the Cluster Status information. Make sure that the Cluster Status is available and the Database Health is healthy before you try to connect to the database later in this tutorial.



On the Clusters page, choose the cluster that you just launched, choose the Cluster button, then Modify cluster. Choose the VPC security groups to associate with this cluster, then choose Modify to make the association. Make sure that the Cluster Properties displays the VPC security groups you chose before continuing to the next step.


