Using Kerberos Authentication with Aurora PostgreSQL
You can use Kerberos authentication to authenticate users when they connect to your DB cluster running PostgreSQL. In this case, your DB instance works with AWS Directory Service for Microsoft Active Directory to enable Kerberos authentication. AWS Directory Service for Microsoft Active Directory is also called AWS Managed Microsoft AD. 
You create an AWS Managed Microsoft AD directory to store user credentials. You then provide to your PostgreSQL DB cluster the Active Directory's domain and other information. When users authenticate with the PostgreSQL DB cluster, authentication requests are forwarded to the AWS Managed Microsoft AD directory. 
Keeping all of your credentials in the same directory can save you time and effort. You have a centralized place for storing and managing credentials for multiple DB clusters. Using a directory can also improve your overall security profile.
You can also access credentials from your own on-premises Microsoft Active Directory. To do so you create a trusting domain relationship so that the AWS Managed Microsoft AD directory trusts your on-premises Microsoft Active Directory. In this way, your users can access your PostgreSQL clusters with the same Windows single sign-on (SSO) experience as when they access workloads in your on-premises network.
Kerberos provides a different authentication method than AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM). A database can use either Kerberos or IAM authentication but not both. For more information about IAM authentication, see IAM Database Authentication. 
Amazon Aurora supports Kerberos authentication for PostgreSQL DB clusters in the following AWS Regions: 
 US East (Ohio)
 US East (N. Virginia)
 US West (N. California)
 US West (Oregon)
 Asia Pacific (Mumbai)
 Asia Pacific (Seoul)
 Asia Pacific (Singapore)
 Asia Pacific (Sydney)
 Asia Pacific (Tokyo)
 Canada (Central)
 Europe (Frankfurt)
 Europe (Ireland)
 Europe (London)
 Europe (Stockholm)
 South America (São Paulo)
Topics
 Overview of Kerberos Authentication for PostgreSQL DB Clusters
 Setting Up Kerberos Authentication for PostgreSQL DB Clusters
 Managing a DB Cluster in a Domain
 Connecting to PostgreSQL with Kerberos Authentication
Overview of Kerberos Authentication for PostgreSQL DB Clusters
To set up Kerberos authentication for a PostgreSQL DB cluster, take the following steps, described in more detail later:


Use AWS Managed Microsoft AD to create an AWS Managed Microsoft AD directory. You can use the AWS Management Console, the AWS CLI, or the AWS Directory Service API to create the directory.


Create a role that provides Amazon Aurora access to make calls to your AWS Managed Microsoft AD directory. To do so, create an AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) role that uses the managed IAM policy AmazonRDSDirectoryServiceAccess. 


For the IAM role to allow access, the AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) endpoint must be activated in the correct AWS Region for your AWS account. AWS STS endpoints are active by default in all AWS Regions, and you can use them without any further actions. For more information, see Activating and Deactivating AWS STS in an AWS Region in the IAM User Guide.


Create and configure users in the AWS Managed Microsoft AD directory using the Microsoft Active Directory tools. For more information about creating users in your Active Directory, see Manage Users and Groups in AWS Managed Microsoft AD in the AWS Directory Service Administration Guide.


If you plan to locate the directory and the DB instance in different AWS accounts or virtual private clouds (VPCs), configure VPC peering. For more information, see What Is VPC Peering? in the Amazon VPC Peering Guide.


Create or modify a PostgreSQL DB cluster either from the console, CLI, or RDS API using one of the following methods:
      Creating a DB Cluster and Connecting to a Database on an Aurora PostgreSQL DB Cluster 
      Modifying an Amazon Aurora DB Cluster 
     Restoring from a DB Cluster Snapshot 
     Restoring a DB Cluster to a Specified Time 


When you create or modify the DB cluster , provide the domain identifier (d-* identifier) that was generated when you created your directory. Also provide the name of the IAM role that you created. You can locate the DB cluster in the same VPC as the directory or in a different AWS account or VPC.

Use the RDS master user credentials to connect to the PostgreSQL DB cluster. Create the user in PostgreSQL to be identified externally. Externally identified users can log in to the PostgreSQL DB cluster using Kerberos authentication.
