Organize an AWS DeepRacer Community Race
Community racing events are races organized by AWS DeepRacer users that are not officially sponsored by AWS.
To organize a community race for AWS DeepRacer users to join, you must create a community race and invite participants to join by sharing a race invitation link. You can do so in the AWS DeepRacer console.
To create an AWS DeepRacer community race using the AWS DeepRacer console


Open the AWS DeepRacer console.


From the main navigation pane, choose Community races.


Under the Community races, choose Create race.



On the Race Details page, type a name for the racing event.


Provide a description for the event. The description should clearly summarize the goals and rules of the event for participants.


Specify the starting and closing dates of the event.


Choose a competition track. For beginners to race in your event, choose a simpler track. For advanced users, use a more challenging track.


(Optional) Choose a racing image. 


Choose an entry requirement of a number of consecutive laps a racer must complete to qualify for submission of the result to the race's leaderboard. For a beginners' race, choose a smaller number. For advanced users, use a larger number.


Specify the number of trials in Race evaluation a racer must complete to qualify for the race.


Choose Next.


On the Review Race Details, choose Submit.



Copy the racing event's invitation link and share it with participants you want to invite. Then, choose Done to finish creating the event. 



The recipients becomes invited participants when they follow the link to join the race. A recipient can forward the link to invite another user to participate in the race. Users without the invitation link aren't aware of the event and can't access the race. However, the race organizer can deny any invited user to access the event by removing the participant from the race. This is part of the community race management tasks. The next section discusses these details.