Related Resources
Amazon MQ Resources
The following table lists useful resources for working with Amazon MQ.



Resource
Description




Amazon MQ REST API Reference
Descriptions of REST resources, example requests, HTTP methods, schemas, parameters, and the errors that the service returns.


Amazon MQ in the AWS CLI Command Reference
Descriptions of the AWS CLI commands that you can use to work with message brokers.


Amazon MQ in the AWS CloudFormation User Guide
The https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-amazonmq-broker.html resource lets you create Amazon MQ brokers, add configuration changes or modify users for the specified broker, return information about the specified broker, and delete the specified broker.The https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-amazonmq-configuration.html resource lets you create Amazon MQ configurations, add configuration changes or modify users, and return information about the specified configuration.


Regions and Endpoints
Information about Amazon MQ regions and endpoints


Product Page
The primary web page for information about Amazon MQ.


Discussion Forum
A community-based forum for developers to discuss technical questions related to Amazon MQ.


AWS Premium Support Information
The primary web page for information about AWS Premium Support, a one-on-one, fast-response support channel to help you build and run applications on AWS infrastructure services



Apache ActiveMQ Resources
The following table lists useful resources for working with Apache ActiveMQ.



Resource
Description




Apache ActiveMQ Getting Started Guide
The official documentation of Apache ActiveMQ.


ActiveMQ in Action
A guide to Apache ActiveMQ that covers the anatomy of JMS messages, connectors, message persistence, authentication, and authorization.


Cross-Language Clients
A list of programming languages and corresponding Apache ActiveMQ libraries. See also ActiveMQ Client and QpidJMS Client.


