Tutorial: Editing Broker Engine Version, Instance Type, CloudWatch Logs, and Maintenance Preferences
In addition to editing broker configurations and managing configuration revisions, you can configure preferences specific to the broker.
Note
All preferences except for those for automatic minor version upgrades require you to schedule modifications. For more information, see Amazon MQ Broker Configuration Lifecycle.
The following example shows how you can edit Amazon MQ broker preferences using the AWS Management Console.
To Edit Broker Options


Sign in to the Amazon MQ console.


From the broker list, select your broker (for example, MyBroker) and then choose Edit.


On the Edit MyBroker page, in the Specifications section, select a Broker engine version or a Broker Instance type.


In the Configuration section, select the configuration and revision for your broker. For more information, see Tutorial: Editing Amazon MQ Broker Configurations and Managing Configuration Revisions.


In the Security and network section, select a group from the Security group(s) drop-down, or choose Create a new security group to open the Amazon VPC console.


In the CloudWatch Logs section, choose whether to publish General logs and Audit logs to Amazon CloudWatch Logs. For more information, see Configuring Amazon MQ to Publish General and Audit Logs to Amazon CloudWatch Logs.
Important
If you don't add the CreateLogGroup permission to your Amazon MQ user before the user creates or reboots the broker, Amazon MQ doesn't create the log group.
If you don't configure a resource-based policy for Amazon MQ, the broker can't publish the logs to CloudWatch Logs.


In the Maintenance section, configure your broker's maintenance schedule:


To upgrade the broker to new versions as AWS releases them, choose Enable automatic minor version upgrades. Automatic upgrades occur during the maintenance window defined by the day of the week, the time of day (in 24-hour format), and the time zone (UTC by default).
Note
For an active/standby broker, if one of the broker instances undergoes maintenance, it takes Amazon MQ a short while to take the inactive instance out of service. This allows the healthy standby instance to become active and to begin accepting incoming communications.

Choose Schedule modifications.
Note
If you choose only Enable automatic minor version upgrades, the button changes to Save because no broker reboot is necessary.

Your preferences are applied to your broker at the specified time.