Managing meeting settings
Manage your meeting settings from the Amazon Chime console. 
Meeting policy settings
Manage account policies in the Amazon Chime console under Settings, Meetings. Choose from the following policy options.
Enable shared control in screen sharing
Choose whether users in your organization can grant shared control of their computers while in meetings. Attendees who request shared control of your users' computers receive an error message indicating that remote control isn't available.
Enable outbound calling to join meetings
Turns on the Amazon Chime call me feature. Provides the option for meeting attendees to join meetings by receiving a phone call from Amazon Chime.
Meeting application settings
Manage meeting application access under Settings, Meetings in the Amazon Chime console. You can choose the following option:
Allow users to sign in to Amazon Chime using the Amazon Chime Meetings App for Slack
This option lets users in your organization sign in to Amazon Chime from the Amazon Chime Meetings App for Slack. For more information, see Setting up the Amazon Chime Meetings App for Slack.
Meeting Region settings
To improve meeting quality and reduce latency, Amazon Chime processes meetings in the optimal AWS Region for all participants. You can choose whether to let Amazon Chime select the optimal Region for a meeting from all available Regions, or to use only the Regions that you select.
You can update this setting from your account Meetings settings at any time. From your Meetings settings, you can also view the percentage of your Amazon Chime meetings that are being processed in each Region.
To update meeting Region settings


Open the Amazon Chime console at https://chime.aws.amazon.com/.


On the Accounts page, select the name of your account. 


In the navigation pane, choose Settings, Meetings.


For Regions, choose one of the following options:
    Use all available Regions to ensure meeting quality – Allows Amazon Chime to optimize meeting processing for you.
    Use only the Regions that I select – Allows you to select Regions from the dropdown menu.


Choose Save.

