Firewall rules reference
Last updated: May 7, 2020 
You can add rules to an Amazon Lightsail instance's firewall that reflects the role of the instance. For example, an instance that's configured as a web server needs firewall rules that allow inbound HTTP and HTTPS access. A database instance needs rules that allow access for the type of database, such as access over port 3306 for MySQL. For more information about firewalls, see Firewall and ports in Amazon Lightsail
This guide provides examples of the kinds of firewall rules that you can add to an instance firewall for specific kinds of access. The rules are listed as application, protocol, port, and source IP address (for example, application - protocol - port - source IP address), unless otherwise stated.
Contents
 Web server rules
 Rules to connect to your instance from your computer
 Database server rules
 DNS server rules
 SMTP email
 More information about firewalls
Web server rules
The following inbound rules allow HTTP and HTTPS access.
Note
Some Lightsail instances have the following firewall rules configured by default. For more information, see Firewall and ports in Amazon Lightsail.
HTTP
HTTP - TCP - 80 - all IP addresses
HTTPS
HTTPs - TCP - 443 - all IP addresses
Rules to connect to your instance from your computer
To connect to your instance, you add a rule that allows SSH access (for Linux instances) or RDP access (for Windows instances).
Note
All Lightsail instances have either of the following firewall rules configured by default. For more information, see Firewall and ports in Amazon Lightsail.
SSH
SSH - TCP - 22 - The public IP address of your computer, or a range of IP addresses (in CIDR block notation) in your local network
RDP
RDP - TCP - 3389 - The public IP address of your computer, or a range of IP addresses (in CIDR block notation) in your local network
Database server rules
The following inbound rules are examples of rules that you might add for database access, depending on what type of database you're running on your instance.
SQL Server
Custom - TCP - 1433 - The public IP address of your computer, or a range of IP addresses (in CIDR block notation) in your local network
MySQL/Aurora
MySQL/Aurora - TCP - 3306 - The public IP address of your computer, or a range of IP addresses (in CIDR block notation) in your local network
PostgreSQL
PostgreSQL - TCP - 5432 - The public IP address of your computer, or a range of IP addresses (in CIDR block notation) in your local network
Oracle-RDS
Oracle-RDS - TCP - 1521 - The public IP address of your computer, or a range of IP addresses (in CIDR block notation) in your local network
Amazon Redshift
Custom - TCP - 5439 - The public IP address of your computer, or a range of IP addresses (in CIDR block notation) in your local network
DNS server rules
If you've set up your instance as a DNS server, you must ensure that TCP and UDP traffic can reach your DNS server over port 53.
DNS (TCP)
DNS (TCP) - TCP - 53 - The IP address of a computer, or a range of IP addresses (in CIDR block notation) in your local network
DNS (UDP)
DNS (UDP) - UDP - 53 - The IP address of a computer, or a range of IP addresses (in CIDR block notation) in your local network
SMTP email
To enable SMTP on your instance, you must configure the following firewall rule.
Important
After configuring the following rule, you must also configure reverse DNS for your instance. Otherwise, your email may be limited over TCP port 25. For more information, see Configuring reverse DNS for an email server on your Amazon Lightsail instance.
SMTP
Custom - TCP - 25 - The IP addresses of the hosts that communicate with your instance
More information about firewalls
The following are some articles to help you manage firewalls in Lightsail.
 Firewall and ports in Amazon Lightsail
 Adding and editing firewall rules in Amazon Lightsail