Edit or delete a DNS zone in Amazon Lightsail
Last updated: September 21, 2018 
You can add, edit, or delete the DNS records in your domain's DNS zone. You can also delete your domain's DNS zone in Amazon Lightsail if you want to transfer management of your domain's DNS records to another DNS hosting provider or back to the registrar where you registered your domain.
Note
Before you can edit records using the DNS editor in the Lightsail console, you must transfer management of your domain's DNS records to Lightsail. For more information, see Creating a DNS zone to manage your domain’s DNS records in Amazon Lightsail.
Edit DNS records in a DNS zone in Lightsail
You can edit the DNS records in your domain's DNS zone at any time using the Lightsail console.
To edit the DNS zone


Sign in to the Lightsail console.


Choose the Networking tab, and then choose the name of the DNS zone you want to edit.



On the DNS zone management page, choose one of the following options:
    To add a new record, choose Add record.
    To edit an existing record, choose the Edit icon next to the record you want to edit.
    To delete an existing record, choose the Delete icon next to the record you want to delete.


When you're done, choose the Save icon to save your changes.
Note
Allow time for the DNS record changes to propagate through the internet's DNS, which may take several hours.


Delete a DNS zone in Lightsail
You can delete your domain's DNS zone in Lightsail.
Important
If you plan to continue routing traffic through your domain, prepare a different DNS hosting provider before deleting your domain's DNS zone in Lightsail. Otherwise, all traffic to your website stops when you delete the Lightsail DNS zone. 
To delete a DNS zone


On the Lightsail console home page, choose the Networking tab.


Choose the name of the DNS zone you want to delete.


Choose the Delete tab, then choose Delete DNS zone.


Choose Yes, delete to confirm the deletion.


The DNS zone is deleted from Lightsail.