Configuring the data import mode for your database in Amazon Lightsail
Last updated: March 15, 2019 
Regular database backup operations can cause substantial delays, or slowdowns, when importing large amounts of data all at once. Enable the data import mode for your Amazon Lightsail managed database to suspend these operations while you import large amounts of data.
Important
All emergency restore backups are deleted when data import mode is enabled. Create a snapshot of your database if you would like to have a backup before data import mode is enabled. For more information, see Creating a snapshot of your database in Amazon Lightsail.
To configure the data import mode for your database


Sign in to the Lightsail console.


On the Lightsail home page, choose the Databases tab.


Choose the name of the database for which you want to configure data import mode.


On the Connect tab, under the Data import mode section, use the toggle to turn on the data import mode. Likewise, after the import is complete, use the toggle to turn it off.



Now that the data import mode is enabled, database backup operations are suspended. We recommend that you enable data import mode temporarily. Use it only when it’s necessary for you to import large amounts of data into your database. Disable data import mode as soon as you’re done to restore backup operations.
Note
Your import may be slowed depending on the amount of data that you're importing. For more information, see Optimizing data import.
Next steps
Here are a few guides to help you manage your database in Lightsail:
 Configuring the public mode for your database in Amazon Lightsail
 Managing your database password in Amazon Lightsail
 Connecting to your MySQL database in Amazon Lightsail
 Connecting to your PostgreSQL database in Amazon Lightsail
 Importing data into your MySQL database in Amazon Lightsail
 Importing data into your PostgreSQL database in Amazon Lightsail
 Creating a snapshot of your database in Amazon Lightsail