Adding and editing firewall rules in Amazon Lightsail
Last updated: May 7, 2020 
You can add rules to the firewall for your Amazon Lightsail instance to control the traffic that is allowed to connect to it. When you add a firewall rule, you can specify the application layer protocol type, protocol, ports, and the source IP addresses that are allowed to connect to your instance. For more information about firewalls, see Firewall and ports in Amazon Lightsail.
Contents
 Adding and editing firewall rules
 Deleting instance firewall rules
 More information about firewalls
Adding and editing instance firewall rules
Complete the following steps to add or edit firewall rules in the Lightsail console.


Sign in to the Lightsail console.


On the Lightsail home page, choose the Instances tab.


Choose the name of the instance for which you want to add or edit a firewall rule.


Choose the Networking tab on your instance's management page.


The Networking tab displays your instance's public and private IP addresses, and the configured firewall rules for your instance.

Scroll down to the Firewall section of the page, and choose Add rule.

You can also choose Edit (pencil icon) next to an existing rule to edit it.

Choose an application layer protocol type in the Application drop-down menu.

When you choose an application layer protocol type, a set of protocol and port presets are specified for you. Example values are Custom rule, All TCP, All UDP, SSH, and RDP.

(Optional) If you choose the Custom rule option, then you can select a value in the Protocol drop-down menu.

The available protocol values are All, ICMP, TCP, and UDP.
Note
Ping is the only communication supported through the ICMP protocol in Lightsail. Choose the Ping (ICMP) application layer protocol type to configure ping for your instance.


(Optional) If you choose the Custom rule option, then you can enter a single port number or range of port numbers (for example, 7000-8000) in the Port field.


(Optional) Select Restrict to IP address to restrict access for the specified protocol and port to a specific IP address or range of IP addresses. Leave this option unselected to allow all IP addresses for the specified protocol and port.


You can enter a single IPv4 address (for example, 203.0.113.1), or a range of IPv4 addresses. The range can be specified using a dash (for example, 192.0.2.0-192.0.2.255) or in CIDR block notation (for example, 192.0.2.0/24). For more information about CIDR block notation, see Classless Inter-Domain Routing on Wikipedia.


(Optional) If you chose the SSH or RDP application layer protocol type, then you can select Allow Lightsail browser SSH/RDP to allow connection to your instance using the browser-based SSH and RDP clients available in the Lightsail console. Leave this option unselected to block access through those browser-based clients.


Choose Create to add the rule to the firewall.


The firewall rule is added after a few moments.
Deleting instance firewall rules
Complete the following steps to delete instance firewalls rule in the Lightsail console.


Sign in to the Lightsail console.


On the Lightsail home page, choose the Instances tab.


Choose the name of the instance for which you want to delete a firewall rule.


Choose the Networking tab on your instance's management page.


Scroll down to the Firewall section of the page, and choose Delete (the trash icon) next to an existing rule to delete it.


Choose Yes to delete the rule when asked to confirm your action.


The firewall rule is deleted after a few moments.
More information about firewalls
The following are some articles to help you manage firewalls in Lightsail.
 Firewall and ports in Amazon Lightsail
 Firewall rules reference