Deleting notification contacts in Amazon Lightsail
Last updated: February 27, 2020 
Delete your email and mobile phone number notification contacts from Amazon Lightsail to stop receiving email and SMS text message notifications for your Lightsail resources. For more information about notifications, see Notifications in Amazon Lightsail.
You can also disable, or delete an alarm to stop receiving notifications for a specific alarm. For more information, see Deleting or disabling metric alarms in Amazon Lightsail.
Contents
 Deleting notification contacts using the Lightsail console
 Deleting notification contacts using the AWS CLI
 Next steps after deleting your notification contacts
Deleting notification contacts using the Lightsail console
Complete the following steps to delete notification contacts using the Lightsail console.


Sign in to the Lightsail console.


On the Lightsail home page, choose Account on the top navigation menu.


Choose Account in the drop-down menu.



Choose the delete icon next to the email address or mobile phone number that you want to delete in the Notification contacts section on the Profile & contacts tab.


Choose Yes to confirm that you want to delete the notification contact.


Deleting notification contacts using the AWS CLI
Complete the following steps to delete notification contacts for Lightsail using the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI).

Open a Terminal or Command Prompt window.

If you haven't already, install the AWS CLI and configure it to work with Lightsail.

Enter the following command to delete a notification contact:

aws lightsail delete-contact-method --region Region --notificationProtocol Protocol
In the command, replace:
    Region with the AWS Region in which the notification contact should be deleted.
    Protocol with the notification protocol for the contact that you want to delete, such as Email or SMS.
Example:
aws lightsail delete-contact-method --region us-west-2 --notificationProtocol SMS
When you press enter, you'll see an operation response with details about your request.
Next steps after deleting your notification contacts
There are a couple of additional tasks that you can perform after deleting your notification contacts:
 Deleting notification contacts stops email and SMS text messaging notifications, but it does not stop notification banners from displaying in the Lightsail console. To stop notification banners, and to also stop email and SMS text messaging notifications, disable or delete the alarms that are causing them. For more information, see Deleting or disabling metric alarms in Amazon Lightsail.
 Add your email address and mobile phone number in Lightsail as notification contacts to start receiving email and SMS text messaging notifications again. For more information, see Adding notification contacts in Amazon Lightsail.