Viewing your load balancer health metrics in Amazon Lightsail
Last updated: February 27, 2020 
After you create a load balancer in Amazon Lightsail, and attach instances to it, you can view its metric graphs on the Metrics tab of the load balancer’s management page. Monitoring metrics is an important part of maintaining the reliability, availability, and performance of your resources. Monitor and collect metric data from your resources regularly so that you can more readily debug a multi-point failure, if one occurs. For more information about metrics, see Metrics in Amazon Lightsail.
When monitoring your resources, you should establish a baseline for normal resource performance in your environment. After you’ve established a baseline, you can configure alarms in the Lightsail console to notify you when your resources are performing outside of specified thresholds. For more information, see Notifications in Amazon Lightsail and Alarms in Amazon Lightsail.
Contents
 Load balancer metrics available in Lightsail
 Viewing load balancer metrics in the Lightsail console
 Next steps after viewing your load balancer metrics
Load balancer metrics available in Lightsail
The following load balancer metrics are available:
 Client TLS negotiation error count (ClientTLSNegotiationErrorCount) — The number of TLS connections initiated by the client that did not establish a session with the load balancer due to a TLS error generated by the load balancer. Possible causes include a mismatch of ciphers or protocols.
 Healthy host count (HealthyHostCount) — The number of target instances that are considered healthy.
 Unhealthy host count (UnhealthyHostCount) — The number of target instances that are considered unhealthy.
 Load balancer HTTP 4XX (HTTPCode_LB_4XX_Count) — The number of HTTP 4XX client error codes that originated from the load balancer. Client errors are generated when requests are malformed or incomplete. These requests were not received by the target instance. This count does not include response codes generated by the target instances.
 Load balancer HTTP 5XX (HTTPCode_LB_5XX_Count) — The number of HTTP 5XX server error codes that originated from the load balancer. This does not include any response codes generated by the target instance. This metric is reported if there are no healthy instances attached to the load balancer, or if the request rate exceeds the capacity of the instances (spillover) or the load balancer.
 Instance HTTP 2XX (HTTPCode_Instance_2XX_Count) — The number of HTTP 2XX response codes generated by the target instances. This does not include any response codes generated by the load balancer.
 Instance HTTP 3XX (HTTPCode_Instance_3XX_Count) — The number of HTTP 3XX response codes generated by the target instances. This does not include any response codes generated by the load balancer.
 Instance HTTP 4XX (HTTPCode_Instance_4XX_Count) — The number of HTTP 4XX response codes generated by the target instances. This does not include any response codes generated by the load balancer.
 Instance HTTP 5XX (HTTPCode_Instance_5XX_Count) — The number of HTTP 5XX response codes generated by the target instances. This does not include any response codes generated by the load balancer.
 Instance response time (InstanceResponseTime) — The time elapsed, in seconds, after the request leaves the load balancer until a response from the target instance is received.
 Rejected connection count (RejectedConnectionCount) — The number of connections that were rejected because the load balancer had reached its maximum number of connections.
 Request count (RequestCount) — The number of requests processed over IPv4. This count includes only the requests with a response generated by a target instance of the load balancer.
Viewing load balancer metrics in the Lightsail console
Complete the following steps to view load balancer metrics in the Lightsail console.


Sign in to the Lightsail console.


On the Lightsail home page, choose the Networking tab.


Choose the name of the load balancer for which you want to view metrics.


Choose the Metrics tab on the load balancer management page.


Choose the metric that you want to view in the drop-down menu under the Metrics graphs heading.


The graph displays a visual representation of the data points for the chosen metric.

You can perform the following actions on the metrics graph:
    Change the view of the graph to show data for 1 hour, 6 hours, 1 day, 1 week, and 2 weeks.
    Pause your cursor on a data point to view detailed information about that data point.
    Add an alarm for the chosen metric to be notified when the metric crosses a threshold you specify. For more information, see Alarms in Amazon Lightsail and Creating load balancer metric alarms in Amazon Lightsail.

Next steps after viewing your load balancer metrics
There are a few additional tasks that you can perform for your load balancer metrics:
 Add an alarm for the chosen metric to be notified when the metric crosses a threshold you specify. For more information, see Alarms in Amazon Lightsail and Creating load balancer metric alarms in Amazon Lightsail.
 When an alarm is triggered, a notification banner is displayed in the Lightsail console. To be notified by email and SMS text message, you must add your email address and mobile phone number as notification contacts in each AWS Region where you want to monitor your resources. For more information, see Adding notification contacts in Amazon Lightsail.
 To stop receiving notifications, you can remove your email and mobile phone from Lightsail. For more information, see Deleting or disabling metric alarms in Amazon Lightsail. You can also disable or delete an alarm to stop receiving notifications for a specific alarm. For more information, see Deleting or disabling metric alarms in Amazon Lightsail.