Extending the storage space of your Windows Server instance in Amazon Lightsail
Last updated: August 8, 2018 
After you use a snapshot to create a new Windows Server instance with a larger plan, you may see that the available storage space is lower than that specified by the plan. This is typically because the additional storage space provided by the larger plan has not been allocated; therefore, it’s not being used by the active volume. The steps in this topic show you how to extend the file system of your Windows Server instance to use the maximum storage space available.
Note
This scenario happens only when you create a Windows Server instance using a snapshot that was created before running the System Preparation (Sysprep) utility. For more information, see Creating a snapshot of your Windows Server instance in Amazon Lightsail.
To extend the file system for a Windows Server instance


Sign in to the Lightsail console.


On the Lightsail home page, choose the RDP client icon for the instance you want to connect to.



The browser-based RDP client window opens, as shown in the following example:



On the taskbar, choose the Windows icon, then choose one of the following options:


On Windows Server 2016 instances, choose Start, then choose Windows Administrative Tools.


On Windows Server 2012 instances, choose Start, then choose Administrative Tools.



Choose Computer Management.


In the left pane of the Computer Management console, choose Disk Management.


On the Actions menu, choose Rescan Disks.


You may see unallocated space associated with a disk. Extend the active volume on the disk to use the unallocated space.



Right-click the active volume on the same disk as the unallocated space, then choose Extend Volume.



When the Extend Volume wizard opens, choose Next.


In the Select the amount of space in MB field, enter the number of megabytes by which to extend the volume. Normally, you set this to the maximum unallocated space. The value you enter is the amount of space that you are adding, not the final size of the volume.



Complete the Extend Volume wizard.


The active volume is extended to use the unallocated space that you specified. The following example shows all of the unallocated space chosen.
