Snapshots in Amazon Lightsail
Last updated: October 2, 2019 
You can create point-in-time snapshots of instances, databases, and block storage disks in Amazon Lightsail, and use them as baselines to create new resources or for data backup. A snapshot contains all of the data that is needed to restore your resource (from the moment when the snapshot was taken). When you restore a resource by creating it from a snapshot, the new resource begins as an exact replica of the original resource that was used to create the snapshot. You will be billed a snapshot storage fee for snapshots on your Lightsail account; whether they are manual snapshots, automatic snapshots, copied snapshots, or system disk snapshots. Your resources can fail at any time—create snapshots frequently to avoid permanently losing your data.
Contents
 Manual snapshots
 Automatic snapshots
 System disk snapshots
 Creating new resources from snapshots
 Copying snapshots
 Exporting snapshots
 Deleting snapshots
Manual snapshots
Create manual snapshots of instances, managed databases, and block storage disks at any time. Manual snapshots are stored indefinitely until you delete them.
For more information about creating manual snapshots, see the following guides:
 Creating a snapshot of your Linux or Unix instance in Amazon Lightsail
 Creating a snapshot of your Windows Server instance in Amazon Lightsail
 Creating a snapshot of your database in Amazon Lightsail
 Creating a snapshot of your block storage disk in Amazon Lightsail
Automatic snapshots
If you're hosting critical information on your Lightsail instance or block storage disk, you should back them up often by creating manual snapshots. However, it's not always easy to find the time to perform frequent administrative tasks. If that's the case for you, then use automatic snapshots to have Lightsail create daily backups of your instance or block storage disk on your behalf, without manual interaction. The latest seven automatic snapshots are stored before the oldest one is replaced with the newest one.
For more information about automatic snapshots, see the following guides:
 Enabling or disabling automatic snapshots for instances or disks in Amazon Lightsail
 Changing the automatic snapshot time for instances or disks in Amazon Lightsail
 Keeping automatic snapshots of instances or disks in Amazon Lightsail
 Deleting automatic snapshots of instances or disks in Amazon Lightsail
System disk snapshots
If your instance becomes unresponsive and you need to access the files on the system disk, you can back up the instance root volume by creating a snapshot of it. Then, you can access the files in the system disk by creating a new block storage disk from the snapshot and attaching it to another instance. For more information, see Creating a snapshot of an instance root volume in Amazon Lightsail.
Creating new resources from snapshots
Use snapshots to create new Lightsail resources using the same plan, or larger plan, than the original resource. When you create a resource based on a snapshot, the new resource begins as a replica of the original resource that was used to create the snapshot. Snapshots cannot be used to create new resources using a smaller Lightsail plan.
For more information, see the following guides:
 Creating an instance from a snapshot in Amazon Lightsail
 Creating a database from a snapshot in Amazon Lightsail
 Creating a block storage disk from a snapshot in Amazon Lightsail
 Creating a larger instance, block storage disk, or database from a snapshot in Amazon Lightsail
Copying snapshots
Instance and block storage disk snapshots can be copied from one Amazon Web Services (AWS) Region to another within the same Lightsail account. Database snapshots cannot be copied between regions. For more information, see Copying snapshots from one AWS Region to another in Amazon Lightsail.
Exporting snapshots
Lightsail is the easiest way to get started with AWS. However, there are limitations with Lightsail that are not present in Amazon EC2 or other AWS services. Export your Lightsail instance and block storage disk snapshots to Amazon EC2 to take advantage of the wider range of instance types available, and use the full range of services in AWS. For more information, see Exporting Amazon Lightsail snapshots.
Note
Snapshots of Ghost and Django instances cannot be exported to Amazon EC2 at this time.
Deleting snapshots
Delete Lightsail snapshots when you no longer need them to avoid incurring a monthly snapshot storage fee. For more information, see Deleting snapshots in Amazon Lightsail.