Creating a Data Set Using Amazon S3 Files
To create a data set using one or more text files (.csv, .tsv, .clf, or .elf) from Amazon S3, create a manifest that Amazon QuickSight can use to identify the files that you want to use, and also the upload settings needed to import them. When you create a data set using Amazon S3, the file data is automatically imported into SPICE.
You must grant Amazon QuickSight access to any Amazon S3 buckets that you want to read files from. For information about granting Amazon QuickSight access to AWS resources, see Managing Amazon QuickSight Permissions to AWS Resources.
Use the following procedure to create an Amazon S3 data set.


Check Data Source Limits to make sure that your target file set doesn't exceed data source limits.


Create a manifest file to identify the text files you want to import, using one of the formats specified in Supported Formats for Amazon S3 Manifest Files.


You can save the manifest file to a local directory, or upload it into Amazon S3.


On the Amazon QuickSight start page, choose Manage data.


On the Your Data Sets page, choose New data set.


In the FROM NEW DATA SOURCES section of the Create a Data Set page, choose the Amazon S3 icon.


For Data source name, type a description of the data source. This name should be something that helps you distinguish this data source from others.


For Upload a manifest file, do one of the following:
    To use a local manifest file, choose Upload, and then choose Upload a JSON manifest file. For Open, choose a file, and then choose Open.
    To use a manifest file from Amazon S3, choose URL, and type the URL for the manifest file. To find the URL of a pre-existing manifest file in the Amazon S3 console, navigate to the appropriate file and choose it. A properties panel displays, including the link URL. You can copy the URL and paste it into Amazon QuickSight.


Choose Connect.


To make sure that the connection is complete, choose Edit/Preview data. Otherwise, choose Visualize to create an analysis using the data as-is. If you choose Edit/Preview data, you can specify a data set name as part of preparing the data. Otherwise, the data set name matches the name of the manifest file. 


To learn more about data preparation, see Preparing Data.