Managing Subscriptions
You can purchase standard user subscriptions to get discounted pricing on Amazon QuickSight. When you create an Amazon QuickSight account, you automatically get one free user account. When you invite additional users to Amazon QuickSight, you are charged for those user accounts on a month-by-month basis. If you have Enterprise edition, you have the option to take advantage of pay-per-session pricing for reader accounts. These are users who only view data dashboards, and don't need author or admin access. When you purchase a subscription, you pay for a user account on an annual rather than monthly basis, and receive a discounted price in return for the extended time commitment. For more information about pricing, see Amazon QuickSight.
When you purchase a set of standard user subscriptions, you choose the number of user accounts you want to cover. You also choose when the subscriptions should start (any time from the month following the current month, to one year in the future) and whether the subscriptions autorenew. All subscriptions that you purchase together must use the same values for these settings.
You can edit an existing set of user subscriptions to change whether it autorenews. If the set is not yet active, you can also change the number of subscriptions it covers, or delete it entirely.
View Current Subscriptions
Use the following procedure to view your current user subscriptions.


Choose your user name on the application bar and then choose Manage QuickSight.



Choose Your Subscriptions.



Use the subscription meter to see how many user accounts you have and how they are billed. The types of user accounts shown are as follows:
    Free users: This is the free user you receive as a standard part of your Amazon QuickSight account.
    Purchased annual subscriptions: These are users covered by purchased subscriptions rather than billed month-to-month.
    Monthly billed users: These are users that are billed month-to-month.


In the following example, the account has 21 users total:
    1 free user.
    7 users with annual subscriptions. Only currently active subscriptions are shown here.
    13 month-to-month users.

Hover over any section of the meter to get details on that user segment.


Use the information in the subscriptions table to see what current and future subscriptions you have.


Purchase Subscriptions
Use the following procedure to purchase subscriptions.


Choose your user name on the application bar and then choose Manage QuickSight.



Choose Your Subscriptions.



Choose Purchase subscription.



Choose or enter the number of subscriptions you want.



Choose the month and year when the subscriptions will start.



Choose whether the subscriptions autorenew.



Choose Purchase subscription.



Edit Subscriptions
Use the following procedure to edit subscriptions.


Choose your user name on the application bar and then choose Manage QuickSight.



Choose Your Subscriptions.



Next to the set of subscriptions you want to change, choose Edit.



(Optional) If the subscriptions haven't started yet, change the number of subscriptions you want.



Choose whether the subscriptions autorenew.



Choose Save changes.



Delete Subscriptions
Use the following procedure to delete subscriptions. You can only delete subscriptions that haven't started yet.


Choose your user name on the application bar and then choose Manage QuickSight.



Choose Your Subscriptions.



Next to the set of subscriptions you want to delete, choose Edit.



Choose Delete Subscription.


