Preparing a Data Set Based on Salesforce Data
Use the following procedure to prepare a Salesforce data set.


Open a Salesforce data set for preparation by choosing one of the following options:
    Create a new Salesforce data set and choose Edit/Preview data. For more information about creating a new Salesforce data set using a new Salesforce data source, see Creating a Data Set from Salesforce. For more information about creating a new Salesforce data set using an existing Salesforce data source, see Create a Data Set Using an Existing Salesforce Data Source.
    Open an existing Salesforce data set for editing from either the analysis page or the Your Data Sets page. For more information about opening an existing data set for data preparation, see Editing a Data Set.


(Optional) On the data preparation page, type a name into the data set name box in the application bar if you want to change the data set name (this defaults to the report or object name).



(Optional) Change the data element selection to see either reports or objects.



(Optional) Change the data selection to choose a different report or object.


If you have a long list in the Data pane, you can search to locate a specific item by typing a search term into the Search tables box. Any item whose name contains the search term is shown. Search is case-insensitive and wildcards are not supported. Choose the cancel icon (X) to the right of the search box to return to viewing all items.



Prepare the data by doing one or more of the following:
    Selecting Fields
    Changing a Field Name
    Changing a Field Data Type
    Adding a Calculated Field During Data Preparation
    Adding a Filter


Check the SPICE indicator to see if you have enough space to import the data set. Importing data into SPICE is required for Salesforce data sets. Importing occurs when you choose either Save & visualize or Save.


If you don't have enough SPICE capacity, you can remove fields from the data set or apply a filter to decrease its size. For more information about adding and removing fields from a data set, see Selecting Fields.
Note
The SPICE indicator doesn't update to reflect the potential savings of removing fields or filtering the data. It continues to reflect the size of the data set as retrieved from the data source.

Choose Save to save your work, or Cancel to cancel it. 

You might also see Save & visualize. This option appears based on the screen you started from. If this option isn't there, you can create a new visualization by starting from the data set screen. 