Refreshing Data
You can refresh your SPICE data sets at any time. Refreshing imports the data into SPICE again, so the data includes any changes since the last import. 
You can refresh SPICE data by taking any of the following approaches: 
 You can use the options on the Your Data Sets page. 
 You can refresh a data set during data preparation.
 You can schedule refreshes of the data.
In the following sections, you can find an explanation of each approach. 
Topics
 Refreshing a Data Set from the Your Data Sets Page
 Refreshing a Data Set During Data Preparation
 Refreshing a Data Set on a Schedule
For data that is not stored in SPICE, you can do the following:
  To refresh file-based data, you must delete and recreate the data set. 
  To refresh data from a database, reopen your data set or the visualization you created. 
Refreshing a Data Set from the Your Data Sets Page
Use the following procedure to refresh a SPICE data set based on an Amazon S3 or database data source on the Your Data Sets page.
To refresh SPICE data from the Your Data Sets page


On the Your Data Sets page, choose the data set, and then choose Refresh Now. 



Leave the refresh type as Full refresh.


If you are refreshing an Amazon S3 data set, choose one of the following options for S3 Manifest:
    To use the same manifest file you last provided to Amazon QuickSight, choose Existing Manifest. If you have changed the manifest file at the file location or URL that you last provided, the data returned reflects those changes. 
    To specify a new manifest file by uploading it from your local network, choose Upload Manifest, and then choose Upload manifest file. For Open, choose a file, and then choose Open.
    To specify a new manifest file by providing a URL, type the URL of the manifest in Input manifest URL. You can find the manifest file URL in the Amazon S3 console by opening the context (right-click) menu for the manifest file, choosing Properties, and looking at the Link box.



Choose Refresh.


If you are refreshing an Amazon S3 data set, choose OK, then OK again.


If you are refreshing a database data set, choose OK.
Refreshing a Data Set During Data Preparation
Use the following procedure to refresh a SPICE data set based on an Amazon S3 or database data source during data preparation.
To refresh SPICE data during data preparation


On the Your Data Sets page, choose the data set, and then choose Edit Data Set.



On the pane, choose Refresh now.



Leave the refresh type as Full refresh.


If you are refreshing an Amazon S3 data set, choose one of the following options for S3 Manifest:
    To use the same manifest file you last provided to Amazon QuickSight, choose Existing Manifest. If you have changed the manifest file at the file location or URL that you last provided, the data returned reflects those changes.
    To specify a new manifest file by uploading it from your local network, choose Upload Manifest, and then choose Upload manifest file. For Open, choose a file, and then choose Open.
    To specify a new manifest file by providing a URL, type the URL of the manifest in Input manifest URL. You can find the manifest file URL in the Amazon S3 console by opening the context (right-click) menu for the manifest file, choosing Properties, and looking at the Link box.



Choose Refresh.


If you are refreshing an Amazon S3 data set, choose OK, then OK again.


If you are refreshing a database data set, choose OK.
Refreshing a Data Set on a Schedule
Use the following procedure to schedule refreshing the data. If your data set is based on a direct query and not stored in SPICE, you can refresh your data by opening the data set or refreshing the page in an analysis or dashboard.
To refresh SPICE data on a schedule


On the Your Data Sets page, choose the data set, and then choose Schedule refresh.



For Schedule Refresh, choose Create.



On the Create a Schedule screen, choose settings for your schedule. 


Time zone: Choose the time zone that applies to the data refresh.


For Repeats: Choose one of the following:

For Standard or Enterprise editions, you can choose Daily, Weekly, or Monthly. 
Daily: Repeats every day
Weekly: Repeats on the same day of each week 
Monthly: Repeats on the same day number of each month. To refresh data on the 29th, 30th or 31st day of the month, choose Last day of month from the list. 



For Enterprise edition only, you can choose Hourly. This setting refreshes your data set every hour, beginning at the time you choose. So, if you select 1:05 as the starting time, the data refreshes at five minutes after the hour, every hour.
If you decide to use an hourly refresh, you can't also use additional refresh schedules. To create an hourly schedule you must remove any other existing schedules for that data set; and you must remove any existing hourly schedule before you can create a daily, weekly, or monthly schedule. 




Starting: Choose a date for the refresh to start.


At: Specify the time that the refresh should start. Use HH:MM and 24-hour format, for example 13:30.



Choose Create. 


You can create five schedules for each data set. When you have created five, the Create button is disabled. 