Sharing Data Sets
You can give other Amazon QuickSight users and groups access to a data set by sharing it with them. Then they can create analyses from it. If you make them co-owners, they can also refresh, edit, delete, or reshare the data set. 
Sharing a Data Set
Use the following procedure to share a data set.


On the Your Data Sets page, choose the data set, and then choose Share (if this data set hasn't been shared with anyone) or Shared with  users (if the data set has been shared with others).



Choose Invite Users.



Type in user or group you want to share this data set with. Then choose the add icon. You can only invite users who belong to the same Amazon QuickSight account.


Repeat this step until you have entered information for everyone you want to share the data set with.


For Permission, choose the role for each user or group, to give them permissions on the data set.

Choose User to allow the user to create analyses from the data set. Choose Owner to allow the user to do that and also refresh, edit, delete, and re-share the data set.


Choose Share.

Users receive emails with a link to the data set. Groups don't receive invitation emails.
Viewing and Editing the Permissions of Users That a Data Set Is Shared With
If you have Owner permissions on a data set, you can use the following procedure to view, edit, or change user access to it. 

On the Your Data Sets page, choose the data set, and then choose Share (if this data set hasn't been shared with anyone) or Shared with  users (if the data set has been shared with others).


A list of all users with access to the data set is displayed.


(Optional) To change roles, choose the field in the Permission column next to the user or group. Then choose either User or Owner.


Revoking Access to a Data Set
If you have Owner permissions on a data set, you can use the following procedure to revoke user access to a data set.

On the Your Data Sets page, choose the data set, and then choose Share (if this data set hasn't been shared with anyone) or Shared with  users (if the data set has been shared with others).


A list of all users with access to the data set is displayed.


In the Actions column for the user, choose Revoke access.

