Sorting Visual Data in Amazon QuickSight
Most visual types offer the ability to change data sort order. Whether sorting is supported and what visual element you can sort by depends on the visual type. 
Note
For SPICE data sets, sorting by text fields (those with a string data type) is supported for fields that contain no more than 256,000 unique values. When this limit is exceeded, a notification appears at the upper right of the visual.
Use the following table to identify the field wells or on-visual editors that support sorting for each visual type.




Visual Type
Field Well or On-Visual Editor




Bar charts (all Horizontal)
Y axis and Value


Bar charts (all Vertical)
X axis and Value


Combo charts (all)
X axis, Bars, and Lines


Geospatial charts
Sorting not supported


Heat map
Columns and Values


KPIs
Sorting not supported


Line charts (all)
X axis and Value for numeric measures only


Pie chart
Value and Group/Color


Pivot table
Column


Scatter plot
Sorting not supported


Tabular Reports
Group by and Value


Tree map
Size, Group by, and Color



Sorting a Visual
For most visual types, you can use either a field well or an on-visual editor to choose the sort order. Pivot tables behave differently; you specify the sort order by using the column sort icon on the visual. For more information about sorting pivot tables, see Sorting Pivot Tables.
Use the procedures below to sort any non-pivot table visual type by using either a field well or an on-visual editor.
Quick Sorting on a Visual Axis
To quickly sort dimensions and measures on bar, stacked, combo charts, hover over the field name on either axis, and choose the sort icon that appears. 

This shortcut to sorting is available for any data type in direct queries. In SPICE, it is available only for datetime, numeric, and decimal data types.

Sorting by Using an On-Visual Editor


On the visual, choose an on-visual editor that supports sorting.


On the on-visual editor menu, choose Sort, and then choose the ascending or descending sort order icon.



Sorting by Using a Field Well


Expand the Field wells pane by choosing the expand icon.



Choose a field well that supports sorting. 


On the field well menu, choose Sort, and then choose the ascending or descending sort order icon.


