Using Tree Maps
Use tree maps to visualize one or two measures for a dimension.
Each rectangle on the tree map represents one item in the dimension. Rectangle size represents the proportion of the value for the selected measure that the item represents compared to the whole for the dimension. You can optionally use rectangle color to represent another measure for the item. Rectangle color represents where the value for the item falls in the range for the measure, with darker colors indicating higher values and lighter colors indicating lower ones.
Tree maps show up to 100 data points for the group by field. For more information about how we handle data that falls outside display limits, see Display Limits in Visuals.
The icon for a tree map is as follows:

Tree Map Features
Use the following table to understand the features supported by tree maps.




Feature
Supported?
Comments
For More Information




Changing the legend display
Yes

Customizing the Visual Legend


Changing the title display
Yes

Customizing a Visual Title


Changing the axis range
Not applicable

Changing the Visual Scale with the Axis Range


Changing the visual colors
No

Changing Visual Colors in Amazon QuickSight


Focusing on or excluding elements
Yes, with exceptions
You can focus on or exclude a rectangle from a tree map, except when you are using a date field as the dimension. In that case, you can only focus on a rectangle, not exclude it.
Focusing on Visual Elements Excluding Visual Elements


Sorting
Yes
You can sort on the fields you choose for size, color, or to group by.
Sorting Visual Data in Amazon QuickSight


Field aggregation
Yes
You must apply aggregation to the fields you choose for size and color, and can't apply aggregation to the field you choose to group by.
Changing Field Aggregation


Adding drill-downs
Yes
You can add drill-down levels to the Group by field well.
Adding Drill-Downs to Visual Data in Amazon QuickSight



Create a Tree Map
Use the following procedure to create a tree map.


On the analysis page, choose Visualize on the tool bar.


Choose Add on the application bar, and then choose Add visual.


On the Visual types pane, choose the tree map icon.


From the Fields list pane, drag the fields that you want to use to the appropriate field wells. Typically, you want to use dimension or measure fields as indicated by the target field well. If you choose to use a dimension field as a measure, the Count aggregate function is automatically applied to it to create a numeric value.


To create a tree map, drag a measure to the Size field well and a dimension to the Group by field well. Optionally, drag another measure to the Color field well.

(Optional) Add drill-down layers by dragging one or more additional fields to the Group by field well. For more information about adding drill-downs, see Adding Drill-Downs to Visual Data in Amazon QuickSight. 
