Configure an HTTPS listener for your Classic Load Balancer
A listener is a process that checks for connection requests. It is configured with a protocol and a port for front-end (client to load balancer) connections and a protocol and a port for back-end (load balancer to instance) connections. For information about the ports, protocols, and listener configurations supported by Elastic Load Balancing, see Listeners for your Classic Load Balancer.
If you have a load balancer with a listener that accepts HTTP requests on port 80, you can add a listener that accepts HTTPS requests on port 443. If you specify that the HTTPS listener sends requests to the instances on port 80, the load balancer terminates the SSL requests and communication from the load balancer to the instances is not encrypted. If the HTTPS listener sends requests to the instances on port 443, communication from the load balancer to the instances is encrypted.
If your load balancer uses an encrypted connection to communicate with instances, you can optionally enable authentication of the instances. This ensures that the load balancer communicates with an instance only if its public key matches the key that you specified to the load balancer for this purpose.
For information about creating a new HTTPS listener, see Create a Classic Load Balancer with an HTTPS listener.
Topics
 Prerequisites
 Add an HTTPS listener using the console
 Add an HTTPS listener using the AWS CLI
Prerequisites
To enable HTTPS support for an HTTPS listener, you must deploy an SSL server certificate on your load balancer. The load balancer uses the certificate to terminate and then decrypt requests before sending them to the instances. If you do not have an SSL certificate, you can create one. For more information, see SSL/TLS certificates for Classic Load Balancers.
Add an HTTPS listener using the console
You can add an HTTPS listener to an existing load balancer.
To add an HTTPS listener to your load balancer


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


On the navigation pane, under LOAD BALANCING, choose Load Balancers.


Select your load balancer.


On the Listeners tab, choose Edit.


On the Edit listeners page, choose Add.


For Load Balancer Protocol, select HTTPS (Secure HTTP). This updates Load Balancer Port, Instance Protocol, and Instance Port.
Important
By default, the instance protocol is HTTP. If you want to set up back-end instance authentication, change the instance protocol to HTTPS (Secure HTTP). This also updates the instance port.


For Cipher, choose Change. Verify that Predefined Security Policy is selected and set to ELBSecurityPolicy-2016-08. We recommend that you always use the latest predefined security policy. If you need to use a different predefined security policy or create a custom policy, see Update the SSL Negotiation Configuration.


If you already have a certificate deployed on your load balancer and want to continue using it, you can skip this step.


For SSL Certificate, choose Change, and then do one of the following:
    If you create or imported a certificate using AWS Certificate Manager, select Choose an existing certificate from AWS Certificate Manager (ACM), select the certificate from Certificate, and then choose Save.
Note
This option is available only in Regions that support AWS Certificate Manager.
    If you imported a certificate using IAM, select Choose an existing certificate from AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM), select the certificate from Certificate, and then choose Save.
    If you have an SSL certificate to import but ACM is not supported in this Region, select Upload a new SSL Certificate to AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM). Type the name of the certificate. In Private Key, copy and paste the contents of the private key file (PEM-encoded). In Public Key Certificate, copy and paste the contents of the public key certificate file (PEM-encoded). In Certificate Chain, copy and paste the contents of the certificate chain file (PEM-encoded), unless you are using a self-signed certificate and it's not important that browsers implicitly accept the certificate.


(Optional) Choose Add to add additional listeners.


Choose Save to add the listeners you just configured.


(Optional) To set up back-end instance authentication for an existing load balancer, you must use the AWS CLI or an API, as this task is not supported using the console. For more information, see Configure Back-end Instance Authentication.


Add an HTTPS listener using the AWS CLI
You can add an HTTPS listener to an existing load balancer.
To add an HTTPS listener to your load balancer using the AWS CLI

Get the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the SSL certificate. For example:

ACM
arn:aws:acm:region:123456789012:certificate/12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012
IAM
arn:aws:iam::123456789012:server-certificate/my-server-certificate

Use the following create-load-balancer-listeners command to add a listener to your load balancer that accepts HTTPS requests on port 443 and sends the requests to the instances on port 80 using HTTP:

aws elb create-load-balancer-listeners --load-balancer-name my-load-balancer --listeners Protocol=HTTPS,LoadBalancerPort=443,InstanceProtocol=HTTP,InstancePort=80,SSLCertificateId=ARN
If you want to set up back-end instance authentication, use the following command to add a listener that accepts HTTPS requests on port 443 and sends the requests to the instances on port 443 using HTTPS:
aws elb create-load-balancer-listeners --load-balancer-name my-load-balancer --listeners Protocol=HTTPS,LoadBalancerPort=443,InstanceProtocol=HTTPS,InstancePort=443,SSLCertificateId=ARN

(Optional) You can use the following describe-load-balancers command to view the updated details of your load balancer:

aws elb describe-load-balancers --load-balancer-name my-load-balancer
The following is an example response:
{
       "LoadBalancerDescriptions": [
           {
               ...
               "ListenerDescriptions": [
                   {
                       "Listener": {
                           "InstancePort": 80, 
                           "SSLCertificateId": "ARN", 
                           "LoadBalancerPort": 443, 
                           "Protocol": "HTTPS", 
                           "InstanceProtocol": "HTTP"
                       }, 
                       "PolicyNames": [
                           "ELBSecurityPolicy-2016-08"
                       ]
                   }, 
                   {
                       "Listener": {
                           "InstancePort": 80, 
                           "LoadBalancerPort": 80, 
                           "Protocol": "HTTP", 
                           "InstanceProtocol": "HTTP"
                       }, 
                       "PolicyNames": []
                   }
               ], 
               ...
           }
       ]
   }


(Optional) Your HTTPS listener was created using the default security policy. If you want to specify a different predefined security policy or a custom security policy, use the create-load-balancer-policy and set-load-balancer-policies-of-listener commands. For more information, see Update the SSL negotiation configuration using the AWS CLI.


(Optional) To set up back-end instance authentication, use the set-load-balancer-policies-for-backend-server command. For more information, see Configure Back-end Instance Authentication.

