Replace the SSL certificate for your Classic Load Balancer
If you have an HTTPS listener, you deployed an SSL server certificate on your load balancer when you created the listener. Each certificate comes with a validity period. You must ensure that you renew or replace the certificate before its validity period ends.
Certificates provided by AWS Certificate Manager and deployed on your load balancer can be renewed automatically. ACM attempts to renew certificates before they expire. For more information, see Managed renewal in the AWS Certificate Manager User Guide. If you imported a certificate into ACM, you must monitor the expiration date of the certificate and renew it before it expires. For more information, see Importing certificates in the AWS Certificate Manager User Guide. After a certificate that is deployed on a load balancer is renewed, new requests use the renewed certificate.
To replace a certificate, you must first create a new certificate by following the same steps that you used when you created the current certificate. Then, you can replace the certificate. After a certificate that is deployed on a load balancer is replaced, new requests use the new certificate.
Note that renewing or replacing a certificate does not affect requests that were already received by a load balancer node and are pending routing to a healthy target.
Topics
 Replace the SSL certificate using the console
 Replace the SSL certificate using the AWS CLI
Replace the SSL certificate using the console
You can replace the certificate deployed on your load balancer with a certificate provided by ACM or a certificate uploaded to IAM.
To replace the SSL certificate for an HTTPS load balancer


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


On the navigation pane, under LOAD BALANCING, choose Load Balancers.


Select your load balancer.


On the Listeners tab, for SSL Certificate, choose Change.


On the Select Certificate page, do one of the following:
    If you created or imported a certificate using AWS Certificate Manager, select Choose an existing certificate from AWS Certificate Manager (ACM), select the certificate from Certificate, and then choose Save.
    If you imported a certificate using IAM, select Choose an existing certificate from AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM), select the certificate from Certificate, and then choose Save.
    If you have a certificate to import but ACM is not supported in the Region, select Upload a new SSL Certificate to AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM). Type a name for the certificate, copy the required information to the form, and then choose Save. Note that the certificate chain is not required if the certificate is a self-signed certificate.


Replace the SSL certificate using the AWS CLI
You can replace the certificate deployed on your load balancer with a certificate provided by ACM or a certificate uploaded to IAM.
To replace an SSL certificate with a certificate provided by ACM

Use the following request-certificate command to request a new certificate:

aws acm request-certificate --domain-name www.example.com

Use the following set-load-balancer-listener-ssl-certificate command to set the certificate:

aws elb set-load-balancer-listener-ssl-certificate --load-balancer-name my-load-balancer --load-balancer-port 443 --ssl-certificate-id arn:aws:acm:region:123456789012:certificate/12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012
To replace an SSL certificate with a certificate uploaded to IAM


If you have an SSL certificate but have not uploaded it, see Uploading a server certificate in the IAM User Guide.


Use the following get-server-certificate command to get the ARN of the certificate:


aws iam get-server-certificate --server-certificate-name my-new-certificate

Use the following set-load-balancer-listener-ssl-certificate command to set the certificate:

aws elb set-load-balancer-listener-ssl-certificate --load-balancer-name my-load-balancer --load-balancer-port 443 --ssl-certificate-id arn:aws:iam::123456789012:server-certificate/my-new-certificate