Adding and removing permissions for your endpoint service
After you create your endpoint service configuration, you can control which service consumers can create an interface endpoint to connect to your service. Service consumers are IAM principals—IAM users, IAM roles, and AWS accounts. To add or remove permissions for a principal, you need its Amazon Resource Name (ARN).
 For an AWS account (and therefore all principals in the account), the ARN is in the form arn:aws:iam::aws-account-id:root.
 For a specific IAM user, the ARN is in the form arn:aws:iam::aws-account-id:user/user-name.
 For a specific IAM role, the ARN is in the form arn:aws:iam::aws-account-id:role/role-name.
Note
If you set permission to "anyone can access" and you set the acceptance model to "accept all requests," then you've just made your NLB public. Because it's easy to obtain an AWS account, there is no practical limitation on who can access your NLB even though it has no public IP address. 

[ Console ]
To add or remove permissions using the console


Open the Amazon VPC console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/.


In the navigation pane, choose Endpoint Services and select your endpoint service.


Choose Actions, Add principals to whitelist.


Specify the ARN for the principal for which to add permissions. To add more principals, choose Add principal. To remove a principal, choose the cross icon next to the entry.
Note
Specify * to add permissions for all principals. This enables all principals in all AWS accounts to create an interface endpoint to your endpoint service.


Choose Add to Whitelisted principals.


To remove a principal, select it in the list and choose Delete.



[ AWS CLI ]
To add permissions for your endpoint service, use the modify-vpc-endpoint-service-permissions command and use the --add-allowed-principals parameter to add one or more ARNs for the principals.
aws ec2 modify-vpc-endpoint-service-permissions --service-id vpce-svc-03d5ebb7d9579a2b3 --add-allowed-principals '["arn:aws:iam::123456789012:root"]'
To view the permissions you added for your endpoint service, use the describe-vpc-endpoint-service-permissions command.
aws ec2 describe-vpc-endpoint-service-permissions --service-id vpce-svc-03d5ebb7d9579a2b3
{
    "AllowedPrincipals": [
        {
            "PrincipalType": "Account", 
            "Principal": "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:root"
        }
    ]
}
To remove permissions for your endpoint service, use the modify-vpc-endpoint-service-permissions command and use the --remove-allowed-principals parameter to remove one or more ARNs for the principals.
aws ec2 modify-vpc-endpoint-service-permissions --service-id vpce-svc-03d5ebb7d9579a2b3 --remove-allowed-principals '["arn:aws:iam::123456789012:root"]'

[  AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell ]
Use Edit-EC2EndpointServicePermission.

[ API ]
Use ModifyVpcEndpointServicePermissions.
