Sign Up for AWS
When you sign up for AWS, your AWS account is automatically signed up for all services in AWS, including Application Auto Scaling. You are charged only for the services that you use. 
If you don't already have an AWS account, you need to create one. If you already have an AWS account, you can skip the steps for creating an account in the following procedure and move to creating an IAM user in step 3.
To sign up for AWS


Open https://aws.amazon.com/ and choose Sign Up.


Follow the online instructions. Part of the sign-up procedure involves receiving a phone call and entering a verification code on the phone keypad. AWS sends you a confirmation email after the sign-up process is complete.


Create an AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) admin user. See Creating Your First IAM User and Group in the IAM User Guide for instructions. 
Important
The getting started exercises in this guide assume that you have a user (adminuser) with administrator permissions. Follow the procedure to create adminuser in your account.


Make sure that you have an access key ID and a secret access key associated with the IAM user that you just created. For more information, see Access Key and Secret Access Key in the AWS Command Line Interface User Guide.


For more information about IAM, see the following:
 AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)
 Getting Started
 IAM User Guide
Using Application Auto Scaling in AWS Regions
Application Auto Scaling is available in multiple AWS Regions. For a list of available Regions, see Application Auto Scaling Regions and Endpoints in the AWS General Reference. A global AWS account allows you to work with resources in most Regions. When using Application Auto Scaling with resources in the China Regions, keep in mind that you must have a separate AWS (China) account. In addition, there are some differences in how Application Auto Scaling is implemented. For more information on using Application Auto Scaling in the China Regions, see Application Auto Scaling in China.