Viewing cluster metrics during load operations
When you view cluster performance during load operations, you can identify queries that are consuming resources and act to mitigate their effect. You can terminate a load if you don't want it to run to completion. 
Note
The ability to terminate queries and loads in the Amazon Redshift console requires specific permission. If you want users to be able to terminate queries and loads, make sure to add the redshift:CancelQuerySession action to your AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) policy. This requirement applies whether you select the Amazon Redshift Read Only AWS-managed policy or create a custom policy in IAM. Users who have the Amazon Redshift Full Access policy already have the necessary permission to terminate queries and loads. For more information about actions in IAM policies for Amazon Redshift, see Managing access to resources.
Note
A new console is available for Amazon Redshift. Choose either the New console or the Original console instructions based on the console that you are using. The New console instructions are open by default.
New console
To display cluster performance during load operations


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon Redshift console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshift/.


On the navigation menu, choose CLUSTERS, then choose the cluster name from the list to open its details. The details of the cluster are displayed, including Query monitoring, Cluster performance, Maintenance and monitoring, Backup, Properties, and Schedule tabs.


Choose the Query monitoring tab for more details. 


In the Queries and loads section, choose Loads to view the load operations of a cluster. If a load is running, you can end it by choosing Terminate query.


Original console
To view cluster metrics during load operations


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon Redshift console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshift/.


In the navigation pane, choose Clusters.


For Cluster, choose the cluster for which you want to view cluster performance during query execution.



Choose the Loads tab.



In the load list, find the load operation you want to work with, and choose the load ID in the Load column.



In the new Query tab that is opened, you can view the details of the load operation.


At this point, you can work with the Query tab as shown in Viewing queries and loads. You can review the details of the query and see the values of cluster metrics during the load operation.
To terminate a running load


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon Redshift console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshift/.


In the navigation pane, choose Clusters.


For Cluster, choose the cluster that you want to open.


Choose the Loads tab.


Do one of the following:
    In the list, select the load or loads that you want to terminate, and choose Terminate Load.
    In the list, open a load if you want to review the load information first, and then choose Terminate Load.


In the Terminate Loads dialog box, choose Confirm.

