Viewing workload concurrency and concurrency scaling data
By using concurrency scaling metrics in Amazon Redshift, you can do the following:
 Analyze whether you can reduce the number of queued queries by enabling concurrency scaling. You can compare by WLM queue or for all WLM queues. 
 View concurrency scaling activity in concurrency scaling clusters. This can tell you if concurrency scaling is limited by the max_concurrency_scaling_clusters. If so, you can choose to increase the max_concurrency_scaling_clusters in the DB parameter.
 View the total usage of concurrency scaling summed across all concurrency scaling clusters.
Note
A new console is available for Amazon Redshift. Choose either the New console or the Original console instructions based on the console that you are using. The New console instructions are open by default.
New console
To display concurrency scaling data


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon Redshift console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshift/.


On the navigation menu, choose CLUSTERS, then choose the cluster name from the list to open its details. The details of the cluster are displayed, including Query monitoring, Cluster performance, to , Backup, Properties, and Schedule tabs.


Choose the Query monitoring tab for metrics about your queries.


In the Query monitoring section, choose Workload concurrency tab. 


The tab includes the following graphs: 
    Queued vs. Running queries on the cluster – The number of queries running (from the main cluster and concurrency scaling cluster) compared to the number of queries waiting in all WLM queues in the cluster. 
    Queued vs. Running queries per queue – The number of queries running (from the main cluster and concurrency scaling cluster) compared to the number or queries waiting in each WLM queue. 
    Concurrency scaling activity – The number of concurrency scaling clusters that are actively processing queries. 
    Concurrency scaling usage – The usage of concurrency scaling clusters that have active query processing activity. 
Original console
To view concurrency scaling data


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon Redshift console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshift/.


In the navigation pane, choose Clusters.


Choose the cluster for which you want to view concurrency scaling data.


Choose the Database Performance tab.


By default, the performance view displays concurrency scaling data over the past hour. If you need to fine-tune the view, you can use filters to change the scope of the data.
Workload concurrency graphs
The following examples show graphs that are displayed in the new Amazon Redshift console. 
 Queued vs. Running queries on the cluster 

 Queued vs. Running queries per queue 

 Concurrency scaling activity 

 Concurrency scaling usage 
