Managing Tags
You can add, edit, and delete tags by using the AWS Management Console, the AWS Command Line Interface, or the AWS Certificate Manager API. 
Managing Tags (Console)
You can use the AWS Management Console to add, delete, or edit tags. You can also display tags in columns. 
Adding a Tag (Console)
Use the following procedure to add tags by using the ACM console. 
To add a tag to a certificate (console)


Sign into the AWS Management Console and open the AWS Certificate Manager console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/acm/home. 


Choose the arrow next to the certificate that you want to tag. 


In the details pane, scroll down to Tags.


Choose Edit and Add Tag.


Type a key and a value for the tag.


Choose Save.


Deleting a Tag (Console)
Use the following procedure to delete tags by using the ACM console. 
To delete a tag (console)


Sign into the AWS Management Console and open the AWS Certificate Manager console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/acm/home. 


Choose the arrow next to the certificate with a tag that you want to delete. 


In the details pane, scroll down to Tags.


Choose Edit.


Choose the X next to the tag you want to delete. 


Choose Save.


Editing a Tag (Console)
Use the following procedure to edit tags by using the ACM console.
To edit a tag (console)


Sign into the AWS Management Console and open the AWS Certificate Manager console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/acm/home. 


Choose the arrow next to certificate you want to edit. 


In the details pane, scroll down to Tags.


Choose Edit.


Modify the key or value of the tag you want to change.


Choose Save.


Showing Tags in Columns (Console)
Use the following procedure to show tags in columns in the ACM console.
To display tags in columns (console)


Sign into the AWS Management Console and open the AWS Certificate Manager console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/acm/home. 


Choose the tags that you want to display as columns by choosing the gear icon  in the upper right corner of the console. 


Select the check box beside the tag that you want to display in a column.


Managing Tags (AWS Command Line Interface)
Refer to the following topics to learn how to add, list, and delete tags by using the AWS CLI.
  add-tags-to-certificate 
  list-tags-for-certificate 
  remove-tags-from-certificate 
Managing Tags (AWS Certificate Manager API)
Refer to the following topics to learn how to add, list, and delete tags by using the API.
  AddTagsToCertificate 
  ListTagsForCertificate 
  RemoveTagsFromCertificate 