Unlimited mode for burstable performance instances
A burstable performance instance configured as unlimited can sustain high CPU utilization for any period of time whenever required. The hourly instance price automatically covers all CPU usage spikes if the average CPU utilization of the instance is at or below the baseline over a rolling 24-hour period or the instance lifetime, whichever is shorter.
For the vast majority of general-purpose workloads, instances configured as unlimited provide ample performance without any additional charges. If the instance runs at higher CPU utilization for a prolonged period, it can do so for a flat additional rate per vCPU-hour. For information about instance pricing, see Amazon EC2 Pricing and the section for Unlimited Mode Pricing on the Amazon EC2 On-Demand Pricing page.
If you use a t2.micro or t3.micro instance under the AWS Free Tier offer and use it in unlimited mode, charges might apply if your average utilization over a rolling 24-hour period exceeds the baseline utilization of the instance.
T3 and T4g instances launch as unlimited by default. If the average CPU usage over a 24-hour period exceeds the baseline, you incur charges for surplus credits. If you launch Spot Instances as unlimited and plan to use them immediately and for a short duration, with no idle time for accruing CPU credits, you incur charges for surplus credits. We recommend that you launch your Spot Instances in standard mode to avoid paying higher costs. For more information, see Surplus credits can incur charges and Burstable performance instances.
Contents
 Unlimited mode concepts
   How Unlimited burstable performance instances work
   When to use unlimited mode versus fixed CPU
   Surplus credits can incur charges
   No launch credits for T2 Unlimited instances
   Enabling unlimited mode
   What happens to credits when switching between Unlimited and Standard
   Monitoring credit usage
 Unlimited mode examples
   Example 1: Explaining credit use with T3 Unlimited
   Example 2: Explaining credit use with T2 Unlimited