Amazon EC2 service quotas
Amazon EC2 provides different resources that you can use. These resources include images, instances, volumes, and snapshots. When you create your AWS account, we set default quotas (also referred to as limits) on these resources on a per-Region basis. For example, there is a maximum number of instances that you can launch in a Region. Therefore, when you launch an instance in the US West (Oregon) Region, the request must not cause your usage to exceed your the maximum number of instances in that Region.
The Amazon EC2 console provides limit information for the resources managed by the Amazon EC2 and Amazon VPC consoles. You can request an increase for many of these limits. Use the limit information that we provide to manage your AWS infrastructure. Plan to request any limit increases in advance of the time that you'll need them.
For more information, see Amazon EC2 endpoints and quotas in the Amazon Web Services General Reference.
Viewing your current limits
Use the Limits page in the Amazon EC2 console to view the current limits for resources provided by Amazon EC2 and Amazon VPC, on a per-Region basis.
To view your current limits


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


From the navigation bar, select a Region.



From the navigation pane, choose Limits.


Locate the resource in the list. You can use the search fields to filter the list by resource name or resource group. The Current limit column displays the current maximum for the resource for your account.


Requesting an increase
Use the Limits page in the Amazon EC2 console to request an increase in your Amazon EC2 or Amazon VPC resources, on a per-Region basis.
Alternatively, request an increase using Service Quotas. For more information, see Requesting a quota increase in the Service Quotas User Guide.
To request an increase using the Amazon EC2 console


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


From the navigation bar, select a Region.


From the navigation pane, choose Limits.


Select the resource in the list, and choose Request limit increase.


Complete the required fields on the limit increase form. We'll respond to you using the contact method that you specified.


Limits on email sent using port 25
Amazon EC2 restricts traffic on port 25 of all instances by default. You can request that this restriction be removed. For more information, see How do I remove the restriction on port 25 from my EC2 instance? in the AWS Knowledge Center.