Finding shared AMIs
You can use the Amazon EC2 console or the command line to find shared AMIs. 
AMIs are a regional resource. Therefore, when searching for a shared AMI (public or private), you must search for it from within the Region from which it is being shared. To make an AMI available in a different Region, copy the AMI to the Region and then share it. For more information, see Copying an AMI.
Finding a shared AMI (console)
To find a shared private AMI using the console


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


In the navigation pane, choose AMIs. 


In the first filter, choose Private images. All AMIs that have been shared with you are listed. To granulate your search, choose the Search bar and use the filter options provided in the menu.


To find a shared public AMI using the console


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


In the navigation pane, choose AMIs.


In the first filter, choose Public images. To granulate your search, choose the Search bar and use the filter options provided in the menu.


Use filters to list only the types of AMIs that interest you. For example, choose Owner : and then choose Amazon images to display only Amazon's public images.


Finding a shared AMI (AWS CLI)
Use the describe-images command (AWS CLI) to list AMIs. You can scope the list to the types of AMIs that interest you, as shown in the following examples.
Example: List all public AMIs
The following command lists all public AMIs, including any public AMIs that you own.
aws ec2 describe-images --executable-users all
Example: List AMIs with explicit launch permissions
The following command lists the AMIs for which you have explicit launch permissions. This list does not include any AMIs that you own.
aws ec2 describe-images --executable-users self
Example: List AMIs owned by Amazon
The following command lists the AMIs owned by Amazon. Amazon's public AMIs have an aliased owner, which appears as amazon in the account field. This enables you to find AMIs from Amazon easily. Other users can't alias their AMIs.
aws ec2 describe-images --owners amazon
Example: List AMIs owned by an account
The following command lists the AMIs owned by the specified AWS account.
aws ec2 describe-images --owners 123456789012
Example: Scope AMIs using a filter
To reduce the number of displayed AMIs, use a filter to list only the types of AMIs that interest you. For example, use the following filter to display only EBS-backed AMIs.
--filters "Name=root-device-type,Values=ebs"
Using shared AMIs
Before you use a shared AMI, take the following steps to confirm that there are no pre-installed credentials that would allow unwanted access to your instance by a third party and no pre-configured remote logging that could transmit sensitive data to a third party. Check the documentation for the Linux distribution used by the AMI for information about improving the security of the system.
To ensure that you don't accidentally lose access to your instance, we recommend that you initiate two SSH sessions and keep the second session open until you've removed credentials that you don't recognize and confirmed that you can still log into your instance using SSH.

Identify and disable any unauthorized public SSH keys. The only key in the file should be the key you used to launch the AMI. The following command locates authorized_keys files:

[ec2-user ~]$ sudo find / -name "authorized_keys" -print -exec cat {} \;

Disable password-based authentication for the root user. Open the sshd_config file and edit the PermitRootLogin line as follows:

PermitRootLogin without-password
Alternatively, you can disable the ability to log into the instance as the root user:
PermitRootLogin No
Restart the sshd service.


Check whether there are any other user accounts that are able to log in to your instance. Accounts with superuser privileges are particularly dangerous. Remove or lock the password of any unknown accounts.


Check for open ports that you aren't using and running network services listening for incoming connections.


To prevent preconfigured remote logging, you should delete the existing configuration file and restart the rsyslog service. For example:


[ec2-user ~]$ sudo rm /etc/rsyslog.conf
   [ec2-user ~]$ sudo service rsyslog restart

Verify that all cron jobs are legitimate.

If you discover a public AMI that you feel presents a security risk, contact the AWS security team. For more information, see the AWS Security Center.