AWS Lambda quotas
AWS Lambda sets quotas for the amount of compute and storage resources that you can use to run and store functions. The following quotas apply per-region and can be increased. To request an increase, use the Support Center console.



Resource
Default quota
Can Be Increased Up To




Concurrent executions
1,000
Hundreds of thousands


Function and layer storage
75 GB
Terabytes


Elastic network interfaces per VPC
250
Hundreds



For details on concurrency and how Lambda scales your function concurrency in response to traffic, see AWS Lambda function scaling.
The following quotas apply to function configuration, deployments, and execution. They cannot be changed.



Resource
Quota




Function memory allocation
128 MB to 3,008 MB, in 64 MB increments.


Function timeout
900 seconds (15 minutes)


Function environment variables
4 KB


Function resource-based policy
20 KB


Function layers
5 layers


Function burst concurrency
500 - 3000 (varies per region)


Invocation payload (request and response)
6 MB (synchronous) 256 KB (asynchronous)


Deployment package size
50 MB (zipped, for direct upload) 250 MB (unzipped, including layers)  3 MB (console editor)


Test events (console editor)
10


/tmp directory storage
512 MB


File descriptors
1,024


Execution processes/threads
1,024



The following quotas are associated with AWS Lambda API requests.



Resource
Quota




Invocation requests per Region (requests per second)
10 x concurrent executions quota (synchronous – all sources) 10 x concurrent executions quota (asynchronous – non-AWS sources) Unlimited (asynchronous – AWS service sources)


Invocation requests per function version or alias (requests per second)
10 x allocated provisioned concurrency This quota only applies to functions that use provisioned concurrency.


GetFunction API requests
100 requests per second


GetPolicy API requests
15 requests per second


Remainder of the control plane API requests (excludes invocation, GetFunction, and GetPolicy requests)
15 requests per second



Quotas for other services, such as AWS Identity and Access Management, Amazon CloudFront (Lambda@Edge), and Amazon Virtual Private Cloud, can impact your Lambda functions. For more information, see AWS service quotas and Using AWS Lambda with other services.