Managing state machines in the Lambda console
You can use the Lambda console to view details about your Step Functions state machines and the Lambda functions that they use.
Topics
 Viewing state machine details
 Editing a state machine
 Running a state machine
Viewing state machine details
The Lambda console displays a list of your state machines in the current AWS Region that contain at least one workflow step that invokes a Lambda function.
Choose a state machine to view a graphical representation of the workflow. Steps highlighted in blue represent Lambda functions. Use the graph controls to zoom in, zoom out, and center the graph.
Note
When a Lambda function is dynamically referenced with JsonPath in the state machine definition, the function details cannot be shown in the Lambda console. Instead, the function name is listed as a Dynamic reference, and the corresponding steps in the graph are grayed out.
To view state machine details


Open the Lambda console Step Functions state machines page.


Choose a state machine.


The Lambda console opens the Details page.
For more information, see Step Functions in the AWS Step Functions Developer Guide.
Editing a state machine
When you want to edit a state machine, Lambda opens the Edit definition page of the Step Functions console.
To edit a state machine


Open the Lambda console Step Functions state machine page.


Choose a state machine.


Choose Edit.


The Step Functions console opens the Edit definition page.

Edit the state machine and choose Save.

For more information about editing state machines, see Step Functions state machine language in the AWS Step Functions Developer Guide.
Running a state machine
When you want to run a state machine, Lambda opens the New execution page of the Step Functions console.
To run a state machine


Open the Lambda console Step Functions state machines page.


Choose a state machine.


Choose Execute.


The Step Functions console opens the New execution page.

(Optional) Edit the state machine and choose Start execution.

For more information about running state machines, see Step Functions state machine execution concepts in the AWS Step Functions Developer Guide.