Dedicated Hosts
An Amazon EC2 Dedicated Host is a physical server with EC2 instance capacity fully dedicated to your use. Dedicated Hosts allow you to use your existing per-socket, per-core, or per-VM software licenses, including Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, SUSE, and Linux Enterprise Server.
For information about the configurations supported on Dedicated Hosts, see the Dedicated Hosts Configuration Table.
Topics
 Differences between Dedicated Hosts and Dedicated Instances
 Bring your own license
 Dedicated Host instance capacity
 Dedicated Hosts restrictions
 Pricing and billing
 Working with Dedicated Hosts
 Working with shared Dedicated Hosts
 Host recovery
 Tracking configuration changes
Differences between Dedicated Hosts and Dedicated Instances
Dedicated Hosts and Dedicated Instances can both be used to launch Amazon EC2 instances onto physical servers that are dedicated for your use.
There are no performance, security, or physical differences between Dedicated Instances and instances on Dedicated Hosts. However, there are some differences between the two. The following table highlights some of the key differences between Dedicated Hosts and Dedicated Instances:




Dedicated Host
Dedicated Instance




Billing
Per-host billing
Per-instance billing


Visibility of sockets, cores, and host ID
Provides visibility of the number of sockets and physical cores
No visibility


Host and instance affinity
Allows you to consistently deploy your instances to the same physical server over time
Not supported


Targeted instance placement
Provides additional visibility and control over how instances are placed on a physical server
Not supported


Automatic instance recovery
Supported. For more information, see Host recovery.
Supported


Bring Your Own License (BYOL)
Supported
Not supported



Bring your own license
Dedicated Hosts allow you to use your existing per-socket, per-core, or per-VM software licenses. When you bring your own license, you are responsible for managing your own licenses. However, Amazon EC2 has features that help you maintain license compliance, such as instance affinity and targeted placement.
These are the general steps to follow in order to bring your own volume licensed machine image into Amazon EC2.


Verify that the license terms controlling the use of your machine images allow usage in a virtualized cloud environment. For more information about Microsoft Licensing, see Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Licensing.


After you have verified that your machine image can be used within Amazon EC2, import it using VM Import/Export. For information about how to import your machine image, see the  VM Import/Export User Guide.


After you import your machine image, you can launch instances from it onto active Dedicated Hosts in your account.


When you run these instances, depending on the operating system, you might be required to activate these instances against your own KMS server (for example, Windows Server or Windows SQL Server). You can't activate your imported Windows AMI against the Amazon Windows KMS server.


Note
To track how your images are used in AWS, enable host recording in AWS Config. You can use AWS Config to record configuration changes to a Dedicated Host and use the output as a data source for license reporting. For more information, see Tracking configuration changes. 
Dedicated Host instance capacity
Support for multiple instance types on the same Dedicated Host is available for the following instance families: c5, m5, r5, c5n, r5n, and m5n. For example, when you allocate an r5 Dedicated Host, you can use a host with 2 sockets and 48 physical cores on which you can run different instance types, such as r5.2xlarge and r5.4xlarge. You can run any number of instances up to the core capacity associated with the host. For example, the table below shows the different instance type combinations you can run on a Dedicated Host.



Instance family
Example instance type combinations




R5
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]


C5
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]


M5
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]



Other instance families support only a single instance type on the same Dedicated Host. For more information about the instance families and instance type configurations supported on Dedicated Hosts see Amazon EC2 Dedicated Host Pricing.
Dedicated Hosts restrictions
Before you allocate Dedicated Hosts, take note of the following limitations and restrictions:
 To run RHEL, SUSE Linux, and SQL Server on Dedicated Hosts, you must bring your own AMIs. RHEL, SUSE Linux, and SQL Server AMIs that are offered by AWS or that are available on AWS Marketplace can't be used with Dedicated Hosts. For more information on how to create your own AMI, see Bring your own license.
 Up to two On-Demand Dedicated Hosts per instance family, per Region can be allocated. It is possible to request a limit increase: Request to Raise Allocation Limit on Amazon EC2 Dedicated Hosts.
 The instances that run on a Dedicated Host can only be launched in a VPC.
 Auto Scaling groups are supported when using a launch template that specifies a host resource group. For more information, see  Creating a Launch Template for an Auto Scaling Group in the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide.
 Amazon RDS instances are not supported.
 The AWS Free Usage tier is not available for Dedicated Hosts.
 Instance placement control refers to managing instance launches onto Dedicated Hosts. You cannot launch Dedicated Hosts into placement groups.
Pricing and billing
The price for a Dedicated Host varies by payment option.
Topics
 On-Demand Dedicated Hosts
 Dedicated Host Reservations
 Savings Plans
 Pricing for Windows Server on Dedicated Hosts
On-Demand Dedicated Hosts
On-Demand billing is automatically activated when you allocate a Dedicated Host to your account.
The On-Demand price for a Dedicated Host varies by instance family and Region. You pay per second (with a minimum of 60 seconds) for active Dedicated Host, regardless of the quantity or the size of instances that you choose to launch on it. For more information about On-Demand pricing, see Amazon EC2 Dedicated Hosts On-Demand Pricing.
You can release an On-Demand Dedicated Host at any time to stop accruing charges for it. For information about releasing a Dedicated Host, see Releasing Dedicated Hosts.
Dedicated Host Reservations
Dedicated Host Reservations provide a billing discount compared to running On-Demand Dedicated Hosts. Reservations are available in three payment options:
 No Upfront—No Upfront Reservations provide you with a discount on your Dedicated Host usage over a term and do not require an upfront payment. Available for a one-year term only.
 Partial Upfront—A portion of the reservation must be paid upfront and the remaining hours in the term are billed at a discounted rate. Available in one-year and three-year terms.
 All Upfront—Provides the lowest effective price. Available in one-year and three-year terms and covers the entire cost of the term upfront, with no additional future charges.
You must have active Dedicated Hosts in your account before you can purchase reservations. Each reservation covers a single, specific Dedicated Host in your account. Reservations are applied to the instance family on the host, not the instance size. If you have three Dedicated Hosts with different instances sizes (m4.xlarge, m4.medium, and m4.large) you can associate a single m4 reservation with all those Dedicated Hosts. The instance family and Region of the reservation must match that of the Dedicated Hosts you want to associate it with. 
When a reservation is associated with a Dedicated Host, the Dedicated Host can't be released until the reservation's term is over.
For more information about reservation pricing, see Amazon EC2 Dedicated Hosts Pricing.
Savings Plans
Savings Plans are a flexible pricing model that offers significant savings over On-Demand Instances. With Savings Plans, you make a commitment to a consistent amount of usage, in USD per hour, for a term of one or three years. This provides you with the flexibility to use the Dedicated Hosts that best meet your needs and continue to save money, instead of making a commitment to a specific Dedicated Host. For more information, see the AWS Savings Plans User Guide.
Pricing for Windows Server on Dedicated Hosts
Subject to Microsoft licensing terms, you can bring your existing Windows Server and SQL Server licenses to Dedicated Hosts. There is no additional charge for software usage if you choose to bring your own licenses.
In addition, you can also use Windows Server AMIs provided by Amazon to run the latest versions of Windows Server on Dedicated Hosts. This is common for scenarios where you have existing SQL Server licenses eligible to run on Dedicated Hosts, but need Windows Server to run the SQL Server workload. Windows Server AMIs provided by Amazon are supported on  current generation instance types only. For more information, see  Amazon EC2 Dedicated Hosts Pricing.