Creating an Amazon EBS volume
You can create an Amazon EBS volume and then attach it to any EC2 instance in the same Availability Zone. If you create an encrypted EBS volume, you can only attach it to supported instance types. For more information, see Supported instance types.
If you are creating a volume for a high-performance storage scenario, you should make sure to use a Provisioned IOPS SSD (io1 or io2) volume and attach it to an instance with enough bandwidth to support your application, such as an EBS-optimized instance or an instance with 10-Gigabit network connectivity. The same advice holds for Throughput Optimized HDD (st1) and Cold HDD (sc1) volumes. For more information, see Amazon EBS–optimized instances.
Empty EBS volumes receive their maximum performance the moment that they are available and do not require initialization (formerly known as pre-warming). However, storage blocks on volumes that were created from snapshots must be initialized (pulled down from Amazon S3 and written to the volume) before you can access the block. This preliminary action takes time and can cause a significant increase in the latency of an I/O operation the first time each block is accessed. Volume performance is achieved after all blocks have been downloaded and written to the volume. For most applications, amortizing this cost over the lifetime of the volume is acceptable. To avoid this initial performance hit in a production environment, you can force immediate initialization of the entire volume or enable fast snapshot restore. For more information, see Initializing Amazon EBS volumes.
Methods of creating a volume
 Create and attach EBS volumes when you launch instances by specifying a block device mapping. For more information, see Launching an instance using the Launch Instance Wizard and Block device mapping.
 Create an empty EBS volume and attach it to a running instance. For more information, see Creating an empty volume below.
 Create an EBS volume from a previously created snapshot and attach it to a running instance. For more information, see Creating a volume from a snapshot below.
Creating an empty volume
Empty volumes receive their maximum performance the moment that they are available and do not require initialization.
To create a empty EBS volume using the console


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


From the navigation bar, select the Region in which you would like to create your volume. This choice is important because some Amazon EC2 resources can be shared between Regions, while others can't. For more information, see Resource locations.


In the navigation pane, choose ELASTIC BLOCK STORE, Volumes.


Choose Create Volume.


For Volume Type, choose a volume type. For more information, see Amazon EBS volume types.


For Size (GiB), type the size of the volume. For more information, see Constraints on the size and configuration of an EBS volume.


With a Provisioned IOPS SSD volume, for IOPS, type the maximum number of input/output operations per second (IOPS) that the volume should support.


For Availability Zone, choose the Availability Zone in which to create the volume. EBS volumes can only be attached to EC2 instances within the same Availability Zone.


(Optional) If the instance type supports EBS encryption and you want to encrypt the volume, select Encrypt this volume and choose a CMK. If encryption by default is enabled in this Region, EBS encryption is enabled and the default CMK for EBS encryption is chosen. You can choose a different CMK from Master Key or paste the full ARN of any key that you can access. For more information, see Amazon EBS encryption.


(Optional) Choose Create additional tags to add tags to the volume. For each tag, provide a tag key and a tag value. For more information, see Tagging your Amazon EC2 resources.


Choose Create Volume. The volume is ready for use when the volume status is Available.


To use your new volume, attach it to an instance, format it, and mount it. For more information, see Attaching an Amazon EBS volume to an instance.


To create an empty EBS volume using the command line
You can use one of the following commands. For more information about these command line interfaces, see Accessing Amazon EC2.
 create-volume (AWS CLI)
 New-EC2Volume (AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell)
Creating a volume from a snapshot
Volumes created from snapshots load lazily in the background. This means that there is no need to wait for all of the data to transfer from Amazon S3 to your EBS volume before the instance can start accessing an attached volume and all its data. If your instance accesses data that hasn't yet been loaded, the volume immediately downloads the requested data from Amazon S3, and then continues loading the rest of the volume data in the background. Volume performance is achieved after all blocks are downloaded and written to the volume. To avoid the initial performance hit in a production environment, see Initializing Amazon EBS volumes.
New EBS volumes that are created from encrypted snapshots are automatically encrypted. You can also encrypt a volume on-the-fly while restoring it from an unencrypted snapshot. Encrypted volumes can only be attached to instance types that support EBS encryption. For more information, see Supported instance types.
Use the following procedure to create a volume from a snapshot.
To create an EBS volume from a snapshot using the console


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


From the navigation bar, select the Region that your snapshot is located in.


To use the snapshot to create a volume in a different region, copy your snapshot to the new Region and then use it to create a volume in that Region. For more information, see Copying an Amazon EBS snapshot.


In the navigation pane, choose ELASTIC BLOCK STORE, Volumes.


Choose Create Volume.


For Volume Type, choose a volume type. For more information, see Amazon EBS volume types.


For Snapshot ID, start typing the ID or description of the snapshot from which you are restoring the volume, and choose it from the list of suggested options.


(Optional) Select Encrypt this volume to change the encryption state of your volume. This is optional if encryption by default is enabled. Select a CMK from Master Key to specify a CMK other than the default CMK for EBS encryption.


For Size (GiB), type the size of the volume, or verify that the default size of the snapshot is adequate.


If you specify both a volume size and a snapshot, the size must be equal to or greater than the snapshot size. When you select a volume type and a snapshot, the minimum and maximum sizes for the volume are shown next to Size. For more information, see Constraints on the size and configuration of an EBS volume.


With a Provisioned IOPS SSD volume, for IOPS, type the maximum number of input/output operations per second (IOPS) that the volume should support.


For Availability Zone, choose the Availability Zone in which to create the volume. EBS volumes can only be attached to EC2 instances in the same Availability Zone.


(Optional) Choose Create additional tags to add tags to the volume. For each tag, provide a tag key and a tag value.


Choose Create Volume.


To use your new volume, attach it to an instance and mount it. For more information, see Attaching an Amazon EBS volume to an instance.


If you created a volume that is larger than the snapshot, you must extend the file system on the volume to take advantage of the extra space. For more information, see Amazon EBS Elastic Volumes.


To create an EBS volume from a snapshot using the command line
You can use one of the following commands. For more information about these command line interfaces, see Accessing Amazon EC2.
 create-volume (AWS CLI)
 New-EC2Volume (AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell)