Troubleshoot an unreachable instance
If you are unable to reach your instance through SSH or RDP, you can capture a screenshot of your instance and view it as an image. This provides visibility into the status of the instance, and allows for quicker troubleshooting. You can also use EC2 Rescue on instances running Windows Server 2008 or later to gather and analyze date from offline instances. 
 How to get a screenshot of an unreachable instance
 Common screenshots
How to get a screenshot of an unreachable instance
You can get screenshots of an instance while it is running or after it has crashed. There is no data transfer cost for the screenshot. The image is generated in JPG format and is no larger than 100 kb. This feature is not supported when the instance is using an NVIDIA GRID driver, is on bare metal instances (instances of type *.metal), or is powered by Arm-based Graviton or Graviton 2 processors. This feature is available in the following Regions: 
 Asia Pacific (Hong Kong) Region
 Asia Pacific (Tokyo) Region
 Asia Pacific (Seoul) Region
 Asia Pacific (Singapore) Region
 Asia Pacific (Sydney) Region
 Asia Pacific (Mumbai) Region
 US East (N. Virginia) Region
 US East (Ohio) Region
 US West (Oregon) Region
 US West (N. California) Region
 Europe (Ireland) Region
 Europe (Frankfurt) Region
 Europe (Milan) Region
 Europe (London) Region
 Europe (Paris) Region
 Europe (Stockholm) Region
 Europe (Paris) Region
 South America (São Paulo) Region
 Canada (Central) Region
 Middle East (Bahrain) Region
 Africa (Capetown) Region
 China (Beijing) Region
 China (Ningxia) Region
To get a screenshot of a running instance using the console


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


In the left navigation pane, choose Instances.


Select the instance to capture.


Choose Actions, Instance Settings.


Choose Get Instance Screenshot. Right-click the image to download and save it.


To get a screenshot of a running instance using the command line
You can use one of the following commands. The returned output is base64-encoded. For more information about these command line interfaces, see Accessing Amazon EC2.
 get-console-screenshot (AWS CLI)
 GetConsoleScreenshot (Amazon EC2 Query API)
For API calls, the returned content is base64-encoded. For command line tools, the decoding is performed for you.
Common screenshots
You can use the following information to help you troubleshoot an unreachable instance based on screenshots returned by the service.
 Log on screen (CtrlAltDelete) 
 Recovery console screen 
 Windows boot manager screen 
 Sysprep screen 
 Getting ready screen 
 Windows Update screen 
 Chkdsk 
Log on screen (CtrlAltDelete)
Console Screenshot Service returned the following.

If an instance becomes unreachable during logon, there could be a problem with your network configuration or Windows Remote Desktop Services. An instance can also be unresponsive if a process is using large amounts of CPU. 
Network configuration
Use the following information, to verify that your AWS, Microsoft Windows, and local (or on-premises) network configurations aren't blocking access to the instance.
AWS network configuration 



Configuration
Verify




Security group configuration
Verify that port 3389 is open for your security group. Verify you are connecting to the right public IP address. If the instance was not associated with an Elastic IP, the public IP changes after the instance stops/starts. For more information, see Remote Desktop can't connect to the remote computer.


VPC configuration (Network ACLs)
Verify that the access control list (ACL) for your Amazon VPC is not blocking access. For information, see Network ACLs in the Amazon VPC User Guide.


VPN configuration
If you are connecting to your VPC using a virtual private network (VPN), verify VPN tunnel connectivity. For more information, see How do I troubleshoot VPN tunnel connectivity to an Amazon VPC?



Windows network configuration 



Configuration
Verify




Windows Firewall
Verify that Windows Firewall isn't blocking connections to your instance. Disable Windows Firewall as described in bullet 7 of the remote desktop troubleshooting section, Remote Desktop can't connect to the remote computer.


Advanced TCP/IP configuration (Use of static IP)
The instance may be unresponsive because you configured a static IP address. For a VPC, create a network interface and attach it to the instance. For EC2 Classic, enable DHCP.



Local or On-Premises Network Configuration
Verify that a local network configuration isn't blocking access. Try to connect to another instance in the same VPC as your unreachable instance. If you can't access another instance, work with your local network administrator to determine whether a local policy is restricting access.
Remote Desktop Services issues
If the instance can't be reached during logon, there could a problem with Remote Desktop Services (RDS) on the instance.
Remote Desktop Services configuration 



Configuration
Verify




RDS is running
Verify that RDS is running on the instance. Connect to the instance using the Microsoft Management Console (MMC) Services snap-in (services.msc). In the list of services, verify that Remote Desktop Services is Running. If it isn't, start it and then set the startup type to Automatic. If you can't connect to the instance by using the Services snap-in, detach the root volume from the instance, take a snapshot of the volume or create an AMI from it, attach the original volume to another instance in the same Availability Zone as a secondary volume, and modify the Start registry key. When you are finished, reattach the root volume to the original instance. For more information about detaching volumes, see Detaching an Amazon EBS volume from a Windows instance.


RDS is enabled
Even if the service is started, it might be disabled. Detach the root volume from the instance, take a snapshot of the volume or create an AMI from it, attach the original volume to another instance in the same Availability Zone as a secondary volume, and enable the service by modifying the Terminal Server registry key as described in Enable Remote Desktop on an EC2 Instance With Remote Registry. When you are finished, reattach the root volume to the original instance. For more information, see Detaching an Amazon EBS volume from a Windows instance.



High CPU usage
Check the CPUUtilization (Maximum) metric on your instance by using Amazon CloudWatch. If CPUUtilization (Maximum) is a high number, wait for the CPU to go down and try connecting again. High CPU usage can be caused by:
 Windows Update
 Security Software Scan
 Custom Startup Script
 Task Scheduler
For more information, see Get Statistics for a Specific Resource in the Amazon CloudWatch User Guide. For additional troubleshooting tips, see High CPU usage shortly after Windows starts.
Recovery console screen
Console Screenshot Service returned the following.

The operating system may boot into the Recovery console and get stuck in this state if the bootstatuspolicy is not set to ignoreallfailures. Use the following procedure to change the bootstatuspolicy configuration to ignoreallfailures.
By default, the policy configuration for AWS-provided public Windows AMIs is set to ignoreallfailures. 


Stop the unreachable instance.


Create a snapshot of the root volume. The root volume is attached to the instance as /dev/sda1. 


Detach the root volume from the unreachable instance, take a snapshot of the volume or create an AMI from it, and attach it to another instance in the same Availability Zone as a secondary volume. For more information, see Detaching an Amazon EBS volume from a Windows instance.
Warning
If your temporary instance is based on the same AMI that the original instance is based on, you must complete additional steps or you won't be able to boot the original instance after you restore its root volume because of a disk signature collision. Alternatively, select a different AMI for the temporary instance. For example, if the original instance uses an AMI for Windows Server 2008 R2, launch the temporary instance using an AMI for Windows Server 2012. If you must create a temporary instance based on the same AMI, see Step 6 in Remote Desktop can't connect to the remote computer to avoid a disk signature collision.

Log in to the instance and execute the following command from a command prompt to change the bootstatuspolicy configuration to ignoreallfailures:

bcdedit /store Drive Letter:\boot\bcd /set {default} bootstatuspolicy ignoreallfailures

Reattach the volume to the unreachable instance and start the instance again.

Windows boot manager screen
Console Screenshot Service returned the following.

The operating system experienced a fatal corruption in the system file and/or the registry. When the instance is stuck in this state, you should recover the instance from a recent backup AMI or launch a replacement instance. If you need to access data on the instance, detach any root volumes from the unreachable instance, take a snapshot of those volume or create an AMI from them, and attach them to another instance in the same Availability Zone as a secondary volume. For more information, see Detaching an Amazon EBS volume from a Windows instance.
Sysprep screen
Console Screenshot Service returned the following.

You may see this screen if you did not use the EC2Config Service to call sysprep.exe or if the operating system failed while running Sysprep. To solve this problem, Use Sysprep to create a standard Amazon Machine Image .
Getting ready screen
Console Screenshot Service returned the following.

Refresh the Instance Console Screenshot Service repeatedly to verify that the progress ring is spinning. If the ring is spinning, wait for the operating system to start up. You can also check the CPUUtilization (Maximum) metric on your instance by using Amazon CloudWatch to see if the operating system is active. If the progress ring is not spinning, the instance may be stuck at the boot process. Reboot the instance. If rebooting does not solve the problem, recover the instance from a recent backup AMI or launch a replacement instance. If you need to access data on the instance, detach the root volume from the unreachable instance, take a snapshot of the volume or create an AMI from it. Then attach it to another instance in the same Availability Zone as a secondary volume.
Windows Update screen
Console Screenshot Service returned the following.

The Windows Update process is updating the registry. Wait for the update to finish. Do not reboot or stop the instance as this may cause data corruption during the update.
Note
The Windows Update process can consume resources on the server during the update. If you experience this problem often, consider using faster instance types and faster EBS volumes. 
Chkdsk
Console Screenshot Service returned the following.

Windows is running the chkdsk system tool on the drive to verify file system integrity and fix logical file system errors. Wait for process to complete.