Upgrading the AWS Management Pack
The procedure that you'll use to update AWS Management Pack depends on the version of System Center.
System Center 2012
To upgrade the AWS Management Pack


On the AWS Add-Ins for Microsoft System Center website, click SCOM 2012. Download AWS-SCOM-MP-2.0-2.5.zip to your computer and unzip it. The .zip file includes Amazon.AmazonWebServices.mpb.


In the Operations console, on the Go menu, click Administration, and then click Management Packs.


In the Tasks pane, click Import Management Packs.


On the Select Management Packs page, click Add, and then click Add from disk.


In the Select Management Packs to import dialog box, select the Amazon.AmazonWebServices.mpb file from the location where you downloaded it, and then click Open.


On the Select Management Packs page, under Import list, select the Amazon Web Services management pack, and then click Install.


If the Install button is disabled, upgrading to the current version is not supported and you must uninstall the AWS Management Pack before you can install the current version. For more information, see Uninstalling the AWS Management Pack.
System Center 2007 R2
To upgrade the AWS Management Pack


On the Management Server, go to the AWS Add-Ins for Microsoft System Center website and click SCOM 2007. Save AWS-MP-Setup-2.5.msi, and then run it.


Click Next and follow the directions to upgrade the components that you installed previously.


If your root management server, Operations console, and watcher node are on different computers, you must download and run the setup program on each computer.


On the watcher node, open a Command Prompt window as an administrator and run the following commands.


```
   C:> net stop HealthService
   The System Center Management service is stopping.
   The System Center Management service was stopped successfully.
C:> net start HealthService
   The System Center Management service is starting.
   The System Center Management service was started successfully.
   ```


In the Operations console, on the Go menu, click Administration, and then click Management Packs.


In the Actions pane, click Import Management Packs.


On the Select Management Packs page, click Add, and then click Add from disk.


In the Select Management Packs to import dialog box, change the directory to C:\Program Files (x86)\Amazon Web Services Management Pack, select the Amazon.AmazonWebServices.mp file, and then click Open.


On the Select Management Packs page, under Import list, select the Amazon Web Services management pack, and then click Install.


If the Install button is disabled, upgrading to the current version is not supported and you must uninstall AWS Management Pack first. For more information, see Uninstalling the AWS Management Pack.