Enable or disable detailed monitoring for your instances
By default, your instance is enabled for basic monitoring. You can optionally enable detailed monitoring. After you enable detailed monitoring, the Amazon EC2 console displays monitoring graphs with a 1-minute period for the instance.
The following describes the data interval and charge for basic and detailed monitoring for instances.
Basic monitoring
Data is available automatically in 5-minute periods at no charge.
Detailed monitoring
Data is available in 1-minute periods for an additional charge.
To get this level of data, you must specifically enable it for the instance. For the instances where you've enabled detailed monitoring, you can also get aggregated data across groups of similar instances.
Charges for detailed monitoring
If you enable detailed monitoring, you are charged per metric that is sent to CloudWatch. You are not charged for data storage. For more information about pricing for detailed monitoring, see Paid tier on the Amazon CloudWatch pricing page. For a pricing example, see Example 1 - EC2 Detailed Monitoring on the Amazon CloudWatch pricing page.
Enabling detailed monitoring
You can enable detailed monitoring on an instance as you launch it or after the instance is running or stopped. Enabling detailed monitoring on an instance does not affect the monitoring of the EBS volumes attached to the instance. For more information, see Amazon CloudWatch metrics for Amazon EBS.
To enable detailed monitoring for an existing instance (console)


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


In the navigation pane, choose Instances.


Select the instance and choose Actions, CloudWatch Monitoring, Enable Detailed Monitoring.


In the Enable Detailed Monitoring dialog box, choose Yes, Enable.


Choose Close.


To enable detailed monitoring when launching an instance (console)
When launching an instance using the AWS Management Console, select the Monitoring check box on the Configure Instance Details page.
To enable detailed monitoring for an existing instance (AWS CLI)
Use the following monitor-instances command to enable detailed monitoring for the specified instances.
aws ec2 monitor-instances --instance-ids i-1234567890abcdef0
To enable detailed monitoring when launching an instance (AWS CLI)
Use the run-instances command with the --monitoring flag to enable detailed monitoring.
aws ec2 run-instances --image-id ami-09092360 --monitoring Enabled=true...
Disabling detailed monitoring
You can disable detailed monitoring on an instance as you launch it or after the instance is running or stopped.
To disable detailed monitoring (console)


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


In the navigation pane, choose Instances.


Select the instance and choose Actions, CloudWatch Monitoring, Disable Detailed Monitoring.


In the Disable Detailed Monitoring dialog box, choose Yes, Disable.


Choose Close.


To disable detailed monitoring (AWS CLI)
Use the following unmonitor-instances command to disable detailed monitoring for the specified instances.
aws ec2 unmonitor-instances --instance-ids i-1234567890abcdef0