How Amazon EKS works with IAM
Before you use IAM to manage access to Amazon EKS, you should understand what IAM features are available to use with Amazon EKS. To get a high-level view of how Amazon EKS and other AWS services work with IAM, see AWS services that work with IAM in the IAM User Guide.
Topics
 Amazon EKS identity-based policies
 Amazon EKS resource-based policies
 Authorization based on Amazon EKS tags
 Amazon EKS IAM roles
Amazon EKS identity-based policies
With IAM identity-based policies, you can specify allowed or denied actions and resources as well as the conditions under which actions are allowed or denied. Amazon EKS supports specific actions, resources, and condition keys. To learn about all of the elements that you use in a JSON policy, see IAM JSON policy elements reference in the IAM User Guide.
Actions
The Action element of an IAM identity-based policy describes the specific action or actions that will be allowed or denied by the policy. Policy actions usually have the same name as the associated AWS API operation. The action is used in a policy to grant permissions to perform the associated operation. 
Policy actions in Amazon EKS use the following prefix before the action: eks:. For example, to grant someone permission to get descriptive information about an Amazon EKS cluster, you include the DescribeCluster action in their policy. Policy statements must include either an Action or NotAction element. 
To specify multiple actions in a single statement, separate them with commas as follows:
"Action": ["eks:action1", "eks:action2"]
You can specify multiple actions using wildcards (*). For example, to specify all actions that begin with the word Describe, include the following action:
"Action": "eks:Describe*"
To see a list of Amazon EKS actions, see Actions Defined by Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service in the IAM User Guide.
Resources
The Resource element specifies the object or objects to which the action applies. Statements must include either a Resource or a NotResource element. You specify a resource using an ARN or using the wildcard (*) to indicate that the statement applies to all resources.
The Amazon EKS cluster resource has the following ARN:
arn:${Partition}:eks:${Region}:${Account}:cluster/${ClusterName}
For more information about the format of ARNs, see Amazon resource names (ARNs) and AWS service namespaces.
For example, to specify the dev cluster in your statement, use the following ARN:
"Resource": "arn:aws:eks:region-code:123456789012:cluster/dev"
To specify all clusters that belong to a specific account and Region, use the wildcard (*):
"Resource": "arn:aws:eks:region-code:123456789012:cluster/*"
Some Amazon EKS actions, such as those for creating resources, cannot be performed on a specific resource. In those cases, you must use the wildcard (*).
"Resource": "*"
To see a list of Amazon EKS resource types and their ARNs, see Resources Defined by Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service in the IAM User Guide. To learn with which actions you can specify the ARN of each resource, see Actions Defined by Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service.
Condition keys
Amazon EKS does not provide any service-specific condition keys, but it does support using some global condition keys. To see all AWS global condition keys, see AWS global condition context keys in the IAM User Guide.
Examples
To view examples of Amazon EKS identity-based policies, see Amazon EKS identity-based policy examples.
When you create an Amazon EKS cluster, the IAM entity user or role, such as a federated user that creates the cluster, is automatically granted system:masters permissions in the cluster's RBAC configuration. To grant additional AWS users or roles the ability to interact with your cluster, you must edit the aws-auth ConfigMap within Kubernetes. 
For additional information about working with the ConfigMap, see Managing users or IAM roles for your cluster.
Amazon EKS resource-based policies
Amazon EKS does not support resource-based policies.
Authorization based on Amazon EKS tags
You can attach tags to Amazon EKS resources or pass tags in a request to Amazon EKS. To control access based on tags, you provide tag information in the condition element of a policy using the eks:ResourceTag/key-name, aws:RequestTag/key-name, or aws:TagKeys condition keys. For more information about tagging Amazon EKS resources, see Tagging your Amazon EKS resources.
Amazon EKS IAM roles
An IAM role is an entity within your AWS account that has specific permissions.
Using temporary credentials with Amazon EKS
You can use temporary credentials to sign in with federation, assume an IAM role, or to assume a cross-account role. You obtain temporary security credentials by calling AWS STS API operations such as AssumeRole or GetFederationToken. 
Amazon EKS supports using temporary credentials. 
Service-linked roles
Service-linked roles allow AWS services to access resources in other services to complete an action on your behalf. Service-linked roles appear in your IAM account and are owned by the service. An IAM administrator can view but not edit the permissions for service-linked roles.
Amazon EKS supports service-linked roles. For details about creating or managing Amazon EKS service-linked roles, see Using Service-Linked Roles for Amazon EKS.
Service roles
This feature allows a service to assume a service role on your behalf. This role allows the service to access resources in other services to complete an action on your behalf. Service roles appear in your IAM account and are owned by the account. This means that an IAM administrator can change the permissions for this role. However, doing so might break the functionality of the service.
Amazon EKS supports service roles. For more information, see Amazon EKS cluster IAM role and Amazon EKS node IAM role.
Choosing an IAM role in Amazon EKS
When you create a cluster resource in Amazon EKS, you must choose a role to allow Amazon EKS to access several other AWS resources on your behalf. If you have previously created a service role, then Amazon EKS provides you with a list of roles to choose from. It's important to choose a role that has the Amazon EKS managed policies attached to it. For more information, see Check for an existing cluster role and Check for an existing node role.