Self-managed nodes
A cluster contains one or more Amazon EC2 nodes that pods are scheduled on. Amazon EKS nodes run in your AWS account and connect to your cluster's control plane via the cluster API server endpoint. You deploy one or more nodes into a node group. A node group is one or more Amazon EC2 instances that are deployed in an Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group. All instances in a node group must:
 Be the same instance type
 Be running the same Amazon Machine Image (AMI)
 Use the same Amazon EKS node IAM role
A cluster can contain several node groups. As long as each node group meets the previous requirements, the cluster can contain node groups that contain different instance types and host operating systems. Each node group can contain several nodes.
Amazon EKS nodes are standard Amazon EC2 instances, and you are billed for them based on normal EC2 prices. For more information, see Amazon EC2 pricing.
Amazon EKS provides specialized Amazon Machine Images (AMI) called Amazon EKS optimized AMIs. The AMIs are configured to work with Amazon EKS and include Docker,  kubelet  , and the AWS IAM Authenticator. The AMIs also contain a specialized bootstrap script that allows it to discover and connect to your cluster's control plane automatically.
If you restrict access to your cluster's public endpoint using CIDR blocks, it is recommended that you also enable private endpoint access so that nodes can communicate with the cluster. Without the private endpoint enabled, the CIDR blocks that you specify for public access must include the egress sources from your VPC. For more information, see Amazon EKS cluster endpoint access control. 
To add self-managed nodes to your Amazon EKS cluster, see the topics that follow. If you launch self-managed nodes manually, then you must add the following tag to each node. For more information, see Adding and deleting tags on an individual resource. If you follow the steps in the guides that follow, then the required tag is automatically added to nodes for you. 



Key
Value




kubernetes.io/cluster/<cluster-name>
owned



For more information about nodes from a general Kubernetes perspective, see Nodes in the Kubernetes documentation.
Topics
 Launching self-managed Amazon Linux nodes
 Launching self-managed Bottlerocket nodes
 Launching self-managed Windows nodes
 Self-managed node updates