Managing AWS Organizations policies
Policies in AWS Organizations enable you to apply additional types of management to the AWS accounts in your organization. You can use policies when all features are enabled  in your organization.
The AWS Organizations console displays the enabled or disabled status for each policy type. On the Organize accounts tab, choose the Root in the left navigation pane. The details pane on the right side of the screen shows all of the available policy types. The list indicates which are enabled and which are disabled in that organization root. If the option to Enable a type is present, that type is currently disabled. If the option to Disable a type is present, that type is currently enabled.
Policy types
Organizations offers policy types in the following two broad categories:
Authorization policies
Authorization policies help you to centrally manage the security of the AWS accounts in your organization.
 Service control policies (SCPs) offer central control over the maximum available permissions for all of the accounts in your organization. 
Management policies
Management policies enable you to centrally configure and manage AWS services and their features.
 Artificial Intelligence (AI) services opt-out policies enable you to control data collection for AWS AI services for all of your organization's accounts.
 Backup policies help you centrally manage and apply backup plans to the AWS resources across your organization's accounts.
 Tag policies help you standardize the tags attached to the AWS resources in your organization's accounts. 
The following table summarizes some of the characteristics of each policy type:



Policy type
Affects master account
Maximum number you can attach to a root, OU, or account
Maximum size
Supports viewing effective policy for OU or account




SCP
 No
5
5120 bytes
 No


AI services opt-out policy
 Yes
5
2500 characters
 Yes


Backup policy
 Yes
10
10,000 characters
 Yes


Tag policy
 Yes
5
2500 characters
 Yes



Using policies in your organization

Enabling and disabling policy types
Getting information about your organization's policies
Understanding policy inheritance
Service control policies
AI services opt-out policies
Backup policies
Tag policies
