Creating, updating, and deleting AI services opt-out policies
After you enable AI services opt-out policies for your organization, you can create a policy.
Creating an AI services opt-out policy
Minimum permissions
To create an AI services opt-out policy, you need permission to run the following action:
organizations:CreatePolicy
To create an AI services opt-out policy (console)


Sign in to the Organizations console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/organizations/. In the organization's master account, sign in as an AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) user, assume an IAM role, or sign in as the root user (not recommended).


On the Policies tab, choose AI services opt-out policies.


On the AI services opt-out policies page, choose Create policy. 


On the Create policy page, enter a name and description for the policy.


Type or paste the policy text in the JSON tab. For information about AI services opt-out policy syntax, see AI services opt-out policy syntax and examples. For example policies that you can use as a starting point, see AI services opt-out policy examples.


When you're finished editing your policy, choose Create policy at the lower-right corner of the page.


To create an AI services opt-out policy (AWS CLI, AWS API)
You can use one of the following to create a tag policy:
 AWS CLI: aws organizations create-policy
For examples that use the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI) to create an AI services opt-out policy, see Using the AWS CLI to manage AI services opt-out policies.
 AWS API: CreatePolicy
What to do next
After you create an AI services opt-out policy, you can put your opt-out choices into effect. To do that, you can attach the policy  to the organization root, organizational units (OUs), AWS accounts within your organization, or a combination of all of those. 
Updating an AI services opt-out policy
To update an AI services opt-out policy, you must have permission to run the following actions:
 organizations:UpdatePolicy with a Resource element in the same policy statement that includes the ARN of the specified policy (or "*")
 organizations:DescribePolicy with a Resource element in the same policy statement that includes the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the specified policy (or "*")
To update an AI services opt-out policy (console)


Sign in to the Organizations console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/organizations/. In the organization's master account, sign in as an IAM user, assume an IAM role, or sign in as the root user (not recommended).


On the Policies tab, choose AI services opt-out policies.


On the AI services opt-out policies page, choose the policy that you want to update.


In the details pane on the right, choose View details. 


On the page that shows the tag policy, choose Edit policy.


Make your changes either by editing the JSON. 


When you're finished updating the policy, choose Save changes.


To update a policy (AWS CLI, AWS API)
You can use one of the following to update a policy: 
 AWS CLI: aws organizations update-policy
 AWS API: UpdatePolicy
Deleting an AI services opt-out policy
When signed in to your organization's master account, you can delete a policy that you no longer need in your organization. 
Before you can delete a policy, you must first detach it from all attached entities.
To delete a policy, you must have permission to run the following action:
 organizations:DeletePolicy
To delete an AI services opt-out policy (console)


Sign in to the Organizations console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/organizations/. In the organization's master account, sign in as an IAM user, assume an IAM role, or sign in as the root user (not recommended).


The policy that you want to delete must first be detached from all roots, OUs, and accounts. Follow the steps in Detaching an AI services opt-out policy to detach the policy from all entities in the organization.


On the Policies tab, choose AI services opt-out policies.


From the AI services opt-out policies page, choose the policy that you want to delete. 


Choose Delete policy.


To delete an AI services opt-out policy (AWS CLI, AWS API)
You can use one of the following to delete a policy:
 AWS CLI: aws organizations delete-policy
 AWS API: DeletePolicy