Amazon ECS container instances
An Amazon ECS container instance is an Amazon EC2 instance that is running the Amazon ECS container agent and has been registered into an Amazon ECS cluster. When you run tasks with Amazon ECS using the EC2 launch type or an Auto Scaling group capacity provider, your tasks are placed on your active container instances.
Note
Tasks using the Fargate launch type are deployed onto infrastructure managed by AWS, so this topic does not apply.
Topics
 Container instance concepts
 Container instance lifecycle
 Check the instance IAM role for your account
 Amazon ECS-optimized AMIs
 Using Bottlerocket with Amazon ECS
 Launching an Amazon ECS Container Instance
 Bootstrapping Container Instances with Amazon EC2 User Data
 Elastic network interface trunking
 Container Instance Memory Management
 Connect to your container instance
 Using CloudWatch Logs with container instances
 Container instance draining
 Manage container instances remotely using AWS Systems Manager
 Starting a task at container instance launch time
 Deregister a container instance
Container instance concepts

Your container instance must be running the Amazon ECS container agent. The container agent is able to register the instance into one of your clusters. If you are using an Amazon ECS-optimized AMI, the agent is already installed. To use a different operating system, install the agent. For more information, see Amazon ECS Container Agent.
Because the Amazon ECS container agent makes calls to Amazon ECS on your behalf, you must launch container instances with an IAM role that authenticates to your account and provides the required resource permissions. For more information, see Amazon ECS Container Instance IAM Role.
Beginning with Linux Amazon ECS-optimized AMI version 20200430 and later, the Amazon EC2 Instance Metadata Service Version 2 (IMDSv2) is supported on your container instances. For Amazon ECS-optimized AMIs prior to version 20200430, Amazon EC2 Instance Metadata Service Version 1 (IMDSv1) is supported. For more information, see Configuring the instance metadata service in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances. 
If any of the containers associated with your tasks require external connectivity, you can map their network ports to ports on the host Amazon ECS container instance so they are reachable from the internet. Your container instance security group must allow inbound access to the ports you want to expose. For more information, see Create a Security Group in the Amazon VPC Getting Started Guide.
We strongly recommend launching your container instances inside a VPC, because Amazon VPC delivers more control over your network and offers more extensive configuration capabilities. For more information, see Amazon EC2 and Amazon Virtual Private Cloud in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances.
Container instances need access to communicate with the Amazon ECS service endpoint. This can be through an interface VPC endpoint or through your container instances having public IP addresses.

For more information about interface VPC endpoints, see Amazon ECS interface VPC endpoints (AWS PrivateLink).
If you do not have an interface VPC endpoint configured and your container instances do not have public IP addresses, then they must use network address translation (NAT) to provide this access. For more information, see NAT Gateways in the Amazon VPC User Guide and HTTP Proxy Configuration in this guide. For more information, see Tutorial: Creating a VPC with Public and Private Subnets for Your Clusters.
 The type of Amazon EC2 instance that you choose for your container instances determines the resources available in your cluster. Amazon EC2 provides different instance types, each with different CPU, memory, storage, and networking capacity that you can use to run your tasks. For more information, see Amazon EC2 Instances.
 Because each container instance has unique state information that is stored locally on the container instance and within Amazon ECS:
   You should not deregister an instance from one cluster and re-register it into another. To relocate container instance resources, we recommend that you terminate container instances from one cluster and launch new container instances with the latest Amazon ECS-optimized Amazon Linux 2 AMI in the new cluster. For more information, see Terminate Your Instance in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances and Launching an Amazon ECS Container Instance.
   You cannot stop a container instance and change its instance type. Instead, we recommend that you terminate the container instance and launch a new container instance with the desired instance size and the latest Amazon ECS-optimized Amazon Linux 2 AMI in your desired cluster. For more information, see Terminate Your Instance in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Linux Instances and Launching an Amazon ECS Container Instance in this guide.
Container instance lifecycle
When the Amazon ECS container agent registers an Amazon EC2 instance into your cluster, the Amazon EC2 instance reports its status as ACTIVE and its agent connection status as TRUE. This container instance can accept RunTask requests.
If you stop (not terminate) an Amazon ECS container instance, the status remains ACTIVE, but the agent connection status transitions to FALSE within a few minutes. Any tasks that were running on the container instance stop. If you start the container instance again, the container agent reconnects with the Amazon ECS service, and you are able to run tasks on the instance again.
Important
If you stop and start a container instance, or reboot that instance, some older versions of the Amazon ECS container agent register the instance again without deregistering the original container instance ID. In this case, Amazon ECS lists more container instances in your cluster than you actually have. (If you have duplicate container instance IDs for the same Amazon EC2 instance ID, you can safely deregister the duplicates that are listed as ACTIVE with an agent connection status of FALSE.) This issue is fixed in the current version of the Amazon ECS container agent. For more information about updating to the current version, see Updating the Amazon ECS Container Agent.
If you change the status of a container instance to DRAINING, new tasks are not placed on the container instance. Any service tasks running on the container instance are removed, if possible, so that you can perform system updates. For more information, see Container instance draining.
If you deregister or terminate a container instance, the container instance status changes to INACTIVE immediately, and the container instance is no longer reported when you list your container instances. However, you can still describe the container instance for one hour following termination. After one hour, the instance description is no longer available.
Check the instance IAM role for your account
The Amazon ECS container agent makes calls to the Amazon ECS APIs on your behalf. Container instances that run the agent require an IAM policy and role for the service to know that the agent belongs to you.
In most cases, the Amazon ECS instance role is automatically created for you in the console first-run experience. You can use the following procedure to check and see if your account already has an Amazon ECS service role.
To check for the ecsInstanceRole in the IAM console


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/.


In the navigation pane, choose Roles. 


Search the list of roles for ecsInstanceRole. If the role exists, you do not need to create it. If the role does not exist, follow the procedures in Amazon ECS Container Instance IAM Role to create the role. 

