Getting started with AWS Fargate using Amazon EKS
This topic helps you to get started running pods on AWS Fargate with your Amazon EKS cluster.
Note
AWS Fargate with Amazon EKS is currently only available in the following Regions:  



Region name
Region




US East (Ohio)
us-east-2


US East (N. Virginia)
us-east-1


US West (Oregon)
us-west-2


Asia Pacific (Singapore)
ap-southeast-1


Asia Pacific (Sydney)
ap-southeast-2


Asia Pacific (Tokyo)
ap-northeast-1 (apne1-az1, apne1-az2, & apne1-az4 only)


Europe (Frankfurt)
eu-central-1


Europe (Ireland)
eu-west-1



If you restrict access to your cluster's public endpoint using CIDR blocks, it is recommended that you also enable private endpoint access so that Fargate pods can communicate with the cluster. Without the private endpoint enabled, the CIDR blocks that you specify for public access must include the egress sources from your VPC. For more information, see Amazon EKS cluster endpoint access control. 
(Optional) Create a cluster
Pods running on Fargate are supported on Amazon EKS clusters beginning with Kubernetes version 1.14 and platform version eks.5. Existing clusters can update to version 1.14 or later to take advantage of this feature. For more information, see Updating an Amazon EKS cluster Kubernetes version.
If you do not already have an Amazon EKS cluster that supports Fargate, you can create one with the following eksctl command.
Note
This procedure requires eksctl version 0.28.0 or later. You can check your version with the following command:  
eksctl version
For more information on installing or upgrading eksctl, see Installing or upgrading eksctl.
eksctl create cluster --name my-cluster --version 1.17 --fargate
Adding the --fargate option in the command above creates a cluster without a node group. However, eksctl creates a pod execution role, a Fargate profile for the default and kube-system namespaces, and it patches the coredns deployment so that it can run on Fargate. 
Ensure that existing nodes can communicate with Fargate pods
If you are working with a new cluster with no nodes, or a cluster with only managed node groups, you can skip to Create a Fargate pod execution role.
If you are working with an existing cluster that already has nodes associated with it, you need to make sure that pods on these nodes can communicate freely with pods running on Fargate. Pods running on Fargate are automatically configured to use the cluster security group for the cluster that they are associated with. You must ensure that any existing nodes in your cluster can send and receive traffic to and from the cluster security group. Managed node groups are automatically configured to use the cluster security group as well, so you do not need to modify or check them for this compatibility.
For existing node groups that were created with eksctl or the Amazon EKS managed AWS CloudFormation templates, you can add the cluster security group to the nodes manually, or you can modify the node group's Auto Scaling group launch template to attach the cluster security group to the instances. For more information, see Changing an instance's security groups in the Amazon VPC User Guide.
You can check for a cluster security group for your cluster in the AWS Management Console under the cluster's Networking section, or with the following AWS CLI command:
aws eks describe-cluster --name cluster_name --query cluster.resourcesVpcConfig.clusterSecurityGroupId
Create a Fargate pod execution role
When your cluster creates pods on AWS Fargate, the pods need to make calls to AWS APIs on your behalf to do things like pull container images from Amazon ECR. The Amazon EKS pod execution role provides the IAM permissions to do this.
Note
If you created your cluster with eksctl using the --fargate option, then your cluster already has a pod execution role and you can skip ahead to Create a Fargate profile for your cluster. Similarly, if you use eksctl to create your Fargate profiles, eksctl will create your pod execution role if one does not already exist.
When you create a Fargate profile, you must specify a pod execution role to use with your pods. This role is added to the cluster's Kubernetes Role based access control (RBAC) for authorization. This allows the kubelet that is running on the Fargate infrastructure to register with your Amazon EKS cluster so that it can appear in your cluster as a node. For more information, see Pod execution role.
To create an AWS Fargate pod execution role with the AWS Management Console


Open the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/.


Choose Roles, then Create role.


Choose EKS from the list of services, EKS - Fargate pod for your use case, and then Next: Permissions.


Choose Next: Tags.


(Optional) Add metadata to the role by attaching tags as key–value pairs. For more information about using tags in IAM, see Tagging IAM Entities in the IAM User Guide. 


Choose Next: Review.


For Role name, enter a unique name for your role, such as AmazonEKSFargatePodExecutionRole, then choose Create role.


Create a Fargate profile for your cluster
Before you can schedule pods running on Fargate in your cluster, you must define a Fargate profile that specifies which pods should use Fargate when they are launched. For more information, see AWS Fargate profile.
Note
If you created your cluster with eksctl using the --fargate option, then a Fargate profile has already been created for your cluster with selectors for all pods in the kube-system and default namespaces. Use the following procedure to create Fargate profiles for any other namespaces you would like to use with Fargate.
You can create a Fargate profile using eksctl or the AWS Management Console.
To create a Fargate profile for a cluster with eksctl
This procedure requires eksctl version 0.28.0 or later. You can check your version with the following command:
eksctl version
For more information on installing or upgrading eksctl, see Installing or upgrading eksctl.
 Create your Fargate profile with the following eksctl command, replacing the variable text with your own values. You must specify a namespace, but the labels option is not required.
eksctl create fargateprofile --cluster cluster_name --name fargate_profile_name --namespace kubernetes_namespace --labels key=value
To create a Fargate profile for a cluster with the AWS Management Console


Open the Amazon EKS console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/eks/home#/clusters.


Choose the cluster to create a Fargate profile for.


Under Fargate profiles, choose Add Fargate profile.


On the Configure Fargate profile page, enter the following information and choose Next.


For Name, enter a unique name for your Fargate profile.


For Pod execution role, choose the pod execution role to use with your Fargate profile. Only IAM roles with the eks-fargate-pods.amazonaws.com service principal are shown. If you do not see any roles listed here, you must create one. For more information, see Pod execution role.


For Subnets, choose the subnets to use for your pods. By default, all subnets in your cluster's VPC are selected. Only private subnets are supported for pods running on Fargate; you must deselect any public subnets.


For Tags, you can optionally tag your Fargate profile. These tags do not propagate to other resources associated with the profile, such as its pods.


On the Configure pods selection page, enter the following information and choose Next.


For Namespace, enter a namespace to match for pods, such as kube-system or default.


(Optional) Add Kubernetes labels to the selector that pods in the specified namespace must have to match the selector. For example, you could add the label infrastructure: fargate to the selector so that only pods in the specified namespace that also have the infrastructure: fargate Kubernetes label match the selector.


On the Review and create page, review the information for your Fargate profile and choose Create.


(Optional) Update CoreDNS
By default, CoreDNS is configured to run on Amazon EC2 infrastructure on Amazon EKS clusters. If you want to only run your pods on Fargate in your cluster, you need to modify the CoreDNS deployment to remove the eks.amazonaws.com/compute-type : ec2 annotation. You would also need to create a Fargate profile to target the CoreDNS pods. The following Fargate profile JSON file does this.
Note
If you created your cluster with eksctl using the --fargate option, then coredns has already been patched to run on Fargate and you can skip ahead to Next steps.
{
    "fargateProfileName": "coredns",
    "clusterName": "dev",
    "podExecutionRoleArn": "arn:aws:iam::111122223333:role/AmazonEKSFargatePodExecutionRole",
    "subnets": [
        "subnet-0b64dd020cdff3864",
        "subnet-00b03756df55e2b87",
        "subnet-0418fcb68ed294abf"
    ],
    "selectors": [
        {
            "namespace": "kube-system",
            "labels": {
                "k8s-app": "kube-dns"
            }
        }
    ]
}
You could apply this Fargate profile to your cluster with the following AWS CLI command. First, create a file called coredns.json and paste the JSON file from the previous step into it, replacing the variable text with your own cluster values.
aws eks create-fargate-profile --cli-input-json file://coredns.json
Then, use the following kubectl command to remove the eks.amazonaws.com/compute-type : ec2 annotation from the CoreDNS pods.
kubectl patch deployment coredns -n kube-system --type json \
-p='[{"op": "remove", "path": "/spec/template/metadata/annotations/eks.amazonaws.com~1compute-type"}]'
Next steps

You can start migrating your existing applications to run on Fargate with the following workflow.



Create a Fargate profile that matches your application's Kubernetes namespace and Kubernetes labels.


Delete and re-create any existing pods so that they are scheduled on Fargate. For example, the following command triggers a rollout of the coredns Deployment. You can modify the namespace and deployment type to update your specific pods.
kubectl rollout restart -n kube-system deployment coredns
 Deploy the ALB Ingress Controller on Amazon EKS (version v1.1.4 or later) to allow Ingress objects for your pods running on Fargate.
 You can use the Vertical Pod Autoscaler to initially right size the CPU and memory for your Fargate pods, and then use the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler to scale those pods. If you want the Vertical Pod Autoscaler to automatically re-deploy pods to Fargate with larger CPU and memory combinations, then set the Vertical Pod Autoscaler's mode to either Auto or Recreate to ensure correct functionality. For more information, see the Vertical Pod Autoscaler documentation on GitHub.

