Authorization rules
Authorization rules act as ﬁrewall rules that grant access to networks. You should have an authorization rule for each network for which you want to grant access.
Topics
 Add an authorization rule to a Client VPN endpoint
 Remove an authorization rule from a Client VPN endpoint
 View authorization rules
Add an authorization rule to a Client VPN endpoint
By adding authorization rules, you grant the specific clients access to the specified network. 
You can add authorization rules to a Client VPN endpoint using the console and the AWS CLI.
To add an authorization rule to a Client VPN endpoint (console)


Open the Amazon VPC console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/.


In the navigation pane, choose Client VPN Endpoints.


Select the Client VPN endpoint to which to add the authorization rule, choose Authorization, and choose Authorize ingress.


For Destination network, enter the IP address, in CIDR notation, of the network that you want users to access (for example, the CIDR block of your VPC).


Specify which clients are allowed to access the specified network. For For grant access to, do one of the following:
    To grant access to all clients, choose Allow access to all users.
    To restrict access to specific clients, choose Allow access to users in a specific access group, and then for Access group ID, enter the ID for the group to grant access to. For example, the security identifier (SID) of an Active Directory group, or the ID/name of a group defined in a SAML-based identity provider (IdP).
Note
(Active Directory) You can use the Microsoft Powershell Get-ADGroup cmdlet to get the SID, for example:  


Get-ADGroup -Filter 'Name -eq "<Name of the AD Group>"'
Note
(SAML-based federated authentication) The group ID/name should match the group attribute information that is returned in the SAML assertion.


For Description, enter a brief description of the authorization rule.


Choose Add authorization rule.


To add an authorization rule to a Client VPN endpoint (AWS CLI)
Use the authorize-client-vpn-ingress command.
Remove an authorization rule from a Client VPN endpoint
By deleting an authorization rule, you remove access to the specified network. 
You can remove authorization rules from a Client VPN endpoint using the console and the AWS CLI.
To remove an authorization rule from a Client VPN endpoint (console)


Open the Amazon VPC console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/.


In the navigation pane, choose Client VPN Endpoints.


Select the Client VPN endpoint to which the authorization rule is added and choose Authorization.


Select the authorization rule to delete, choose Revoke ingress, and choose Revoke ingress.


To remove an authorization rule from a Client VPN endpoint (AWS CLI)
Use the revoke-client-vpn-ingress command.
View authorization rules
You can view authorization rules for a specific Client VPN endpoint using the console and the AWS CLI.
To view authorization rules (console)


Open the Amazon VPC console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/.


In the navigation pane, choose Client VPN Endpoints.


Select the Client VPN endpoint for which to view authorization rules and choose Authorization.


To view authorization rules (AWS CLI)
Use the describe-client-vpn-authorization-rules command.