Add a tag to a project
Adding tags to a project can help you identify and organize your AWS resources and manage access to them. First, you add one or more tags (key-value pairs) to a project. Keep in mind that there are limits on the number of tags you can have on a project. There are restrictions on the characters you can use in the key and value fields. For more information, see Tags. After you have tags, you can create IAM policies to manage access to the project based on these tags. You can use the CodeBuild console or the AWS CLI to add tags to a project. 
Important
Before you add a tag to a project, make sure to review any IAM policies that might use tags to control access to resources such as build projects. For examples of tag-based access policies, see Using tags to control access to AWS CodeBuild resources.
For more information about adding tags to a project when you create it, see Add a tag to a project (console).
Topics
 Add a tag to a project (console)
 Add a tag to a project (AWS CLI)
Add a tag to a project (console)
You can use the CodeBuild console to add one or more tags to a CodeBuild project. 


Open the CodeBuild console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/codebuild/.


In Build projects, choose the name of the project where you want to add tags.


In the navigation pane, choose Settings. Choose Build project tags.


If no tags have been added to the project, choose Add tag. Otherwise, choose Edit, and then choose Add tag.


In Key, enter a name for the tag. You can add an optional value for the tag in Value. 


(Optional) To add another tag, choose Add tag again.


When you have finished adding tags, choose Submit.


Add a tag to a project (AWS CLI)
To add a tag to a project when you create it, see Create a build project (AWS CLI). In create-project.json, add your tags.
In these steps, we assume that you have already installed a recent version of the AWS CLI or updated to the current version. For more information, see Installing the AWS Command Line Interface.
If successful, this command returns nothing.