View build details in AWS CodeBuild
You can use the AWS CodeBuild console, AWS CLI, or AWS SDKs to view details about builds managed by CodeBuild.
Topics
 View build details (console)
 View build details (AWS CLI)
 View build details (AWS SDKs)
 Build phase transitions
View build details (console)


Open the AWS CodeBuild console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/codesuite/codebuild/home.


Do one of the following:
    In the navigation pane, choose Build history. In the list of builds, in the Build run column, choose the link for the build. 
    In the navigation pane, choose Build projects. In the list of build projects, in the Name column, choose the link for the name of the build project. Then, in the list of builds, in the Build run column, choose the link for the build.
Note
By default, only the 10 most recent builds or build projects are displayed. To view more builds or build projects, choose the gear icon, and then choose a different value for Builds per page or Projects per page or use the back and forward arrows.


View build details (AWS CLI)
For more information about using the AWS CLI with AWS CodeBuild, see the Command line reference.
Run the batch-get-builds command:
aws codebuild batch-get-builds --ids ids
Replace the following placeholder:
 ids: Required string. One or more build IDs to view details about. To specify more than one build ID, separate each build ID with a space. You can specify up to 100 build IDs. To get a list of build IDs, see the following topics:
   View a list of build IDs (AWS CLI)
   View a list of build IDs for a build project (AWS CLI)
For example, if you run this command:
aws codebuild batch-get-builds --ids codebuild-demo-project:e9c4f4df-3f43-41d2-ab3a-60fe2EXAMPLE codebuild-demo-project:815e755f-bade-4a7e-80f0-efe51EXAMPLE my-other-project:813bb6c6-891b-426a-9dd7-6d8a3EXAMPLE
If the command is successful, data similar to that described in To view summarized build information  appears in the output.
View build details (AWS SDKs)
For more information about using AWS CodeBuild with the AWS SDKs, see the AWS SDKs and tools reference.
Build phase transitions
Builds in AWS CodeBuild proceed in phases:

Important
The UPLOAD_ARTIFACTS phase is always attempted, even if the BUILD phase fails.