Rotate an AWS SSO Certificate
Rotating an AWS SSO certificate is a multistep process that involves the following:
 Generating a new certificate
 Adding the new certificate to the service provider’s website
 Setting the new certificate to active
 Deleting the inactive certificate
Use all of the following procedures in the following order to complete the certificate rotation process for a given application.
Step 1: Generate a new certificate.
New AWS SSO certificates that you generate can be configured to use the following properties:
 Validity period – Specifies the time allotted (in months) before a new AWS SSO certificate expires.
 Key size – Determines the number of bits that a key must use with its cryptographic algorithm. You can set this value to either 1024-bit RSA or 2048-bit RSA. For general information about how key sizes work in cryptography, see Key size.
 Algorithm – Specifies the algorithm that AWS SSO uses when signing the SAML assertion/response. You can set this value to either SHA-1 or SHA-256. AWS recommends using SHA-256 when possible, unless your service provider requires SHA-1. For general information about how cryptography algorithms work, see Public-key cryptography.


Open the AWS SSO console.


Choose Applications.


In the list of applications, choose the application that you want to generate a new certificate for.


On the application details page, choose the Configuration tab. Under AWS SSO metadata, choose Manage certificate.


On the AWS SSO certificate page, choose Generate new certificate.


In the Generate new AWS SSO certificate dialog box, specify the appropriate values for Validity period, Algorithm, and Key size. Then choose Generate.


Step 2: Update the service provider's website.
Use the following procedure to reestablish the trust with the application's service provider. 
Important
When you upload the new certificate to the service provider, your users might not be able to get authenticated. To correct this situation, set the new certificate as active as described in the next step.


In the AWS SSO console, choose the application that you just generated a new certificate for.


On the application details page, choose Edit configuration.


Choose View instructions, and then follow the instructions for your specific application service provider’s website to add the newly generated certificate. 


Step 3: Set the new certificate to active.
An application can have up to two certificates assigned to it. Whichever certificate is set as active, AWS SSO will use it to sign all SAML assertions.


Open the AWS SSO console.


Choose Applications.


In the list of applications, choose your application.


On the application details page, choose the Configuration tab. Under AWS SSO metadata, choose Manage certificate.


On the AWS SSO certificate page, select the certificate you want to set to active, choose Actions, and then choose Set as active.


In the Set the selected certificate as active dialog, confirm that you understand that setting a certificate to active may require you to re-establish the trust, and then choose Make active.


Step 4: Delete the old certificate.
Use the following procedure to complete the certificate rotation process for your application. You can only delete a certificate that is in an Inactive state.


Open the AWS SSO console.


Choose Applications.


In the list of applications, choose your application.


On the application details page, select the Configuration tab. Under AWS SSO metadata, choose Manage certificate.


On the AWS SSO certificate page, select the certificate you want to delete. Choose Actions and then choose Delete.


In the Delete certificate dialog box, choose Delete.

