Application Versioning
AWS RoboMaker supports creating more than one version of your robot applications and simulation applications. This helps you control which code your robots and simulations use. A version is a numbered snapshot of your application. Create a version to use in different parts of your development workflow. For example, development, beta deployment, or production. 
When you version an AWS RoboMaker robot application or simulation application you create a snapshot of the application. This way you can use the application as it existed when the version was made. After you create a version it stays the same while you continue to work on your application.
You can create a maximum of 40 versions per application.
Topics
 The $LATEST Version
 Updating an Application Version
 Deleting an Application Version
The $LATEST Version
When you create a version, AWS RoboMaker copies the $LATEST version to create the new version and increments the version number by 1. Version numbers are never reused. For example, if you remove a simulation application numbered version 10 and then recreate it, the next version number AWS RoboMaker assigns to the simulation application is version 11. 
When you deploy a robot application, you must select a specific numbered version to deploy. For more information on how to create a robot application version, see Creating a Robot Application Version. 
For more information how to create a simulation application version, see Creating a Simulation Application Version.
Updating an Application Version
You can update only the $LATEST version of an AWS RoboMaker application . When you do this, it is available to use in AWS RoboMaker. For example, if you restart a simulation job, the latest version of the applications will be used in the simulation. 
For more information, see Updating a Robot Application and Updating a Simulation Application.
Deleting an Application Version
When you no longer need an application version, delete it. For more information, see Deleting a Robot Application Version and Deleting a Simulation Application Version. 