How Do I Configure Amazon S3 Inventory?
Amazon S3 inventory provides a flat file list of your objects and metadata, which is a scheduled alternative to the Amazon S3 synchronous List API operation. Amazon S3 inventory provides comma-separated values (CSV) or Apache optimized row columnar (ORC) or Apache Parquet (Parquet) output files that list your objects and their corresponding metadata on a daily or weekly basis for an S3 bucket or for objects that share a prefix (objects that have names that begin with the same string). For more information, see Amazon S3 Inventory in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide.
To configure inventory
Note
It may take up to 48 hours to deliver the first report.


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon S3 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/.


In the Bucket name list, choose the name of the bucket for which you want to configure Amazon S3 inventory.



Choose the Management tab, and then choose Inventory.


Choose Add new.


Type a name for the inventory and set it up as follows:
    Optionally, add a prefix for your filter to inventory only objects whose names begin with the same string.
    Choose the destination bucket where you want reports to be saved. The destination bucket must be in the same AWS Region as the bucket for which you are setting up the inventory. The destination bucket can be in a different AWS account. 
    Optionally, choose a prefix for the destination bucket.
    Choose how frequently to generate the inventory.



Under Advanced settings, you can set the following:


Choose either the CSV, ORC, or Parquet output file format for your inventory. For more information about these formats, see Amazon S3 Inventory in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide. 



To include all versions of the objects in the inventory, choose Include all versions in the Object versions list. By default, the inventory includes only the current versions of the objects.


For Optional fields, select one or more of the following to add to the inventory report:

Size – Object size in bytes.
Last modified date – The object creation date or the last modified date, whichever is the latest.
Storage class – The storage class used for storing the object. 
ETag – The entity tag is a hash of the object. The ETag reflects changes only to the contents of an object, and not its metadata. The ETag may or may not be an MD5 digest of the object data. Whether it is depends on how the object was created and how it is encrypted.
Multipart upload – Specifies that the object was uploaded as a multipart upload. For more information, see Multipart Upload Overview in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide.
Replication status – The replication status of the object. For more information, see How do I add a replication rule to an S3 bucket?.
Encryption status – The server-side encryption used to encrypt the object. For more information, see Protecting Data Using Server-Side Encryption in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide.

S3 Object Lock configurations – The Object Lock status of the object, including the following settings: 

Retention mode – The level of protection applied to the object, either Governance or Compliance.
Retain until date – The date until which the locked object cannot be deleted.
Legal hold status – The legal hold status of the locked object. 

For information about S3 Object Lock, see S3 Object Lock Overview in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide.


For more information about the contents of an inventory report, see  What's Included in an Amazon S3 Inventory? in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide.


For Encryption, choose a server-side encryption option to encrypt the inventory report, or choose None:

None – Do not encrypt the inventory report.
AES-256 – Encrypt the inventory report using server-side encryption with Amazon S3-managed keys (SSE-S3). Amazon S3 server-side encryption uses 256-bit Advanced Encryption Standard (AES-256). For more information, see Amazon S3-Managed Encryption Keys (SSE-S3) in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide. 
AWS-KMS – Encrypt the report using server-side encryption with AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) customer master keys (CMKs). For more information, see AWS KMS CMKs in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide. 
Note
To encrypt the inventory list file with SSE-KMS, you must grant Amazon S3 permission to use the AWS KMS CMK. For instructions, see Grant Amazon S3 Permission to Encrypt Using Your AWS KMS CMK .



Choose Save.


Destination Bucket Policy
Amazon S3 creates a bucket policy on the destination bucket that grants Amazon S3 write permission. This allows Amazon S3 to write data for the inventory reports to the bucket. 
If an error occurs when you try to create the bucket policy, you are given instructions on how to fix it. For example, if you choose a destination bucket in another AWS account and don't have permissions to read and write to the bucket policy, you see the following message. 

In this case, the destination bucket owner must add the displayed bucket policy to the destination bucket. If the policy is not added to the destination bucket, you won't get an inventory report because Amazon S3 doesn’t have permission to write to the destination bucket. If the source bucket is owned by a different account than that of the current user, the correct account ID of the source bucket must be substituted in the policy.
For more information, see Amazon S3 Inventory in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Developer Guide.
Granting Amazon S3 Permission to Use Your AWS KMS CMK for Encryption
To grant Amazon S3 permission to encrypt using a customer managed AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) customer master key (CMK), you must use a key policy. To update your key policy so that you can use an AWS KMS customer managed CMK to encrypt the inventory file, follow the steps below.
To grant permissions to encrypt using your AWS KMS CMK


Using the AWS account that owns the customer managed CMK, sign into the AWS Management Console.


Open the AWS KMS console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/kms.


To change the AWS Region, use the Region selector in the upper-right corner of the page.


In the left navigation pane, choose Customer managed keys.


Under Customer managed keys, choose the customer managed CMK that you want to use to encrypt the inventory file.


Under Key policy, choose Switch to policy view.


To update the key policy, choose Edit.


Under Edit key policy, add the following key policy to the existing key policy.


{
       "Sid": "Allow Amazon S3 use of the CMK",
       "Effect": "Allow",
       "Principal": {
           "Service": "s3.amazonaws.com"
       },
       "Action": [
           "kms:GenerateDataKey"
       ],
       "Resource": "*"
   }

Choose Save changes.

For more information about creating customer managed CMKs AWS KMS and using key policies, see the following links in the AWS Key Management Service Developer Guide:
    Getting Started
    Using Key Policies in AWS KMS
More Info
Storage management