Additional information about AWS Cloud9
This topic provides more information to help you learn about AWS Cloud9.
Topics
 Related videos
 Related topics on the AWS Site
 Pricing
 I have additional questions or need help
Related videos

AWS re:Invent 2017 - Introducing AWS Cloud9: Werner Vogels Keynote (9 minutes, YouTube website)
AWS re:Invent Launchpad 2017 - AWS Cloud9, (15 minutes, YouTube website)
Introducing AWS Cloud9 - AWS Online Tech Talks (33 minutes, YouTube website)
AWS Sydney Summit 2018: AWS Cloud9 and AWS CodeStar (25 minutes, YouTube website)

Related topics on the AWS Site

Introducing AWS Cloud9
AWS Cloud9 – Cloud Developer Environments
AWS Cloud9 Overview
AWS Cloud9 Features
AWS Cloud9 FAQs

Pricing
There is no additional charge for AWS Cloud9. If you use an Amazon EC2 instance for your AWS Cloud9 development environment, you pay only for the compute and storage resources (for example, an Amazon EC2 instance, an Amazon EBS volume) that are used to run and store your code. You can also connect your environment to an existing Linux server (for example, an on-premises server) through SSH for no additional charge.
You only pay for what you use, as you use it; there are no minimum fees and no upfront commitments. You are charged the normal AWS rates for any AWS resources (for example, AWS Lambda functions) that you create or use within your environment.
New AWS customers who are eligible for the AWS Free Tier can use AWS Cloud9 for free. If your environment makes use of resources beyond the AWS Free Tier, you are charged the normal AWS rates for those resources.
For more information, see the following.
 AWS Cloud9 pricing: See AWS Cloud9 Pricing.
 AWS service pricing: See Amazon EC2 Pricing, Amazon EBS Pricing, AWS Lambda Pricing, and AWS Pricing.
 The AWS Free Tier: See Using the AWS Free Tier and Tracking Your Free Tier Usage in the AWS Billing and Cost Management User Guide.
 Educational pricing: See the AWS Educate program.
I have additional questions or need help
To ask questions or seek help from the AWS Cloud9 community, see the AWS Cloud9 Discussion Forum. (When you enter this forum, AWS might require you to sign in.)
See also our frequently asked questions (FAQs), or contact us directly.