Limits for AWS Cloud9
The following tables list limits in AWS Cloud9 and related AWS services.
  AWS Cloud9 Limits 
  Related AWS Service Limits 
AWS Cloud9 Limits
The following table provides the default limits for AWS Cloud9 for an AWS account. Unless otherwise noted, each limit is Region-specific.
To request an increase for a limit that is adjustable, do the following:


Sign in to AWS and open the Create case page on the AWS Support Center website.


Select Service limit increase.


Under Case classification, choose cloud9 from the Limit type list.


Fill out the rest of the fields as appropriate. If the request is urgent, choose Phone as the method of contact instead of Web.


Choose Submit.


These increases are not granted immediately, so it might take a couple of days for your increase to become effective.




Resource
Default Limit
Adjustable




Maximum number of AWS Cloud9 EC2 development environments
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]
Yes


Maximum number of SSH environments
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]
Yes


Maximum number of members in an environment
The default maximum number of members is equal to the memory of the instance for that environment divided by 60 MB, with results rounded down. For example, an instance with 1 GiB of memory can have a maximum of 17 members (which is 1 GiB divided by 60 MB, rounded down). If AWS Cloud9 cannot determine the memory of an instance, it defaults to a maximum of 8 users for each environment associated with that instance. The absolute maximum number of members for an environment is 25.
No1


Maximum editable file size
8 MB
No



1 You can move an environment to attempt to increase the default maximum number of members. However, the absolute maximum number of members for an environment is still 25.
Related AWS Service Limits










Maximum number of Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) volumes
5,000 For more information, see Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) Limits in the Amazon Web Services General Reference.


Maximum number of AWS CloudFormation stacks
200 For more information, see AWS CloudFormation Limits in the AWS CloudFormation User Guide.


Amazon EC2 limits
See Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) Limits in the Amazon Web Services General Reference.


