Opening an environment in AWS Cloud9
This procedure describes how to open an environment in AWS Cloud9.
Note
This procedure assumes you have already created an AWS Cloud9 development environment. To create an environment, see Creating an Environment.


Sign in to the AWS Cloud9 console as follows:
    If you're the only individual using your AWS account or you are an IAM user in a single AWS account, go to https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloud9/.
    If your organization uses AWS Single Sign-On (SSO), see your AWS account administrator for sign-in instructions.
    If you're using an AWS Educate Starter Account, see Step 2: Sign in to the AWS Cloud9 Console in Individual Student Signup.
    If you're a student in a classroom, see your instructor for sign-in instructions.
Important
If you sign out of your AWS Account, the AWS Cloud9 IDE can still be accessed for up to five minutes afterwards. Access is then denied when the required permissions expire.


In the top navigation bar, choose the AWS Region where the environment is located.



In the list of environments, for the environment you want to open, do one of the following.
    Inside of the card, choose the Open IDE link.

    Select the card, and then choose the Open IDE button.



If your environment is not displayed in the console, try doing one or more of the following actions to try to display it.
 In the side navigation bar, choose one or more of the following.
   Choose Your environments to display all environments that your AWS entity owns within the selected AWS Region and AWS account.
   Choose Shared with you to display all environments your AWS entity has been invited to within the selected AWS Region and AWS account.
   Choose Account environments to display all environments within the selected AWS Region and AWS account that your AWS entity has permissions to display.

 Choose the previous arrow, next arrow, or page number button to display more environments in the current scope.

 If you think you should be a member of an environment, but the environment is not displayed in the Shared with you list, check with the environment owner.
 In the top navigation bar, choose a different AWS Region.
