Related information
The following is additional information for Tutorial: Hello AWS Cloud9 (console).
 When you create an EC2 environment, the environment doesn't contain any sample code by default. To create an environment with sample code, see one of the following topics:
    Working with Amazon Lightsail instances in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE) 
    Working with AWS CodeStar Projects in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE) 
 During creation of the AWS Cloud9 development environment, you directed AWS Cloud9 to create an Amazon EC2 instance. AWS Cloud9 created the instance and then connected the environment to it. As an alternative, you can use an existing cloud compute instance or your own server (which is called an SSH environment). For more information, see Creating an Environment in AWS Cloud9.
Optional next steps
Explore any or all of the following topics to continue getting familiar with AWS Cloud9.




Task
See this topic




Learn more about what you can do with an environment.
Working with Environments in AWS Cloud9


Try other computer languages.
Tutorials and samples for AWS Cloud9


Learn more about the AWS Cloud9 IDE.
Tour the AWS Cloud9 IDE in Working with the IDE


Invite others to use your new environment along with you, in real time and with text chat support.
Working with Shared Environments in AWS Cloud9


Create SSH environments (environments that use cloud compute instances or servers that you create, instead of an Amazon EC2 instances that AWS Cloud9 creates for you).
Creating an Environment in AWS Cloud9 and AWS Cloud9 SSH Development Environment host requirements


Use AWS Cloud9 with Lambda.
AWS Lambda Tutorial for AWS Cloud9, Advanced AWS Lambda Tutorial for AWS Cloud9, and Working with AWS Lambda functions in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)


Use AWS Cloud9 with Amazon Lightsail.
Working with Amazon Lightsail instances in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)


Use AWS Cloud9 with AWS CodeStar.
Working with AWS CodeStar Projects in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)


Use AWS Cloud9 with AWS CodePipeline.
Working with AWS CodePipeline in the AWS Cloud9 Integrated Development Environment (IDE)


Use AWS Cloud9 with the AWS CLI, the aws-shell, AWS CodeCommit, the AWS Cloud Development Kit (AWS CDK), GitHub, or Amazon DynamoDB, as well as Node.js, Python, or other programming languages.
Tutorials and samples


Work with code for intelligent robotics applications in AWS RoboMaker.
Developing with AWS Cloud9 in the AWS RoboMaker Developer Guide



To get help with AWS Cloud9 from the community, see the AWS Cloud9 Discussion Forum. (When you enter this forum, AWS might require you to sign in.)
To get help with AWS Cloud9 directly from AWS, see the support options on the AWS Support page.