Step 1: Create an Environment
(First step of Tutorial: Hello AWS Cloud9 (console))
In this step, you use the AWS Cloud9 console to create and then open an AWS Cloud9 development environment.
Note
If you have already created the environment that you want to use for this tutorial, open that environment and skip ahead to Step 2: Basic tour of the IDE.
In AWS Cloud9, a development environment (or just environment) is a place where you store your development project's files and where you run the tools to develop your applications. In this tutorial, you create a special kind of environment called an EC2 environment, and then work with the files and tools in that environment.
Create an EC2 Environment with the console


Sign in to the AWS Cloud9 console as follows:
    If you're the only individual using your AWS account or you are an IAM user in a single AWS account, go to https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloud9/.
    If your organization uses AWS Single Sign-On (AWS SSO), see your AWS account administrator for sign-in instructions.
    If you're using an AWS Educate Starter Account, see Step 2: Use an AWS Educate Starter Account to sign in to the AWS Cloud9 console in Individual Student Signup.
    If you're a student in a classroom, see your instructor for sign-in instructions.


After you sign in to the AWS Cloud9 console, in the top navigation bar, choose an AWS Region to create the environment in. For a list of available AWS Regions, see AWS Cloud9 in the AWS General Reference.



Choose the large Create environment button in one of the locations shown below.


If you have no AWS Cloud9 environments yet, the button is shown on a welcome page.

If you already have AWS Cloud9 environments, the button is shown as follows.



On the Name environment page, for Name, enter a name for your environment. For this tutorial, use my-demo-environment.


For Description, enter something about your environment. For this tutorial, use This environment is for the AWS Cloud9 tutorial.


Choose Next step.


On the Configure settings page, for Environment type, choose one of the following options to create an EC2-backed environment:
    Create a new EC2 instance for environment (direct access): Choose this option to launch an Amazon EC2 instance that AWS Cloud9 can connect to directly over SSH.
—OR—
    Create a new no-ingress EC2 instance for environment (access via Systems Manager): Choose this option to launch an Amazon EC2 instance that doesn't require any open inbound ports. AWS Cloud9 connects to the instance through AWS Systems Manager.
  If you select the access via Systems Manager option, a service role and an IAM instance profile are automatically created to allow Systems Manager to interact with the EC2 instance on your behalf. You can view the names of both in the Service role and instance profile for Systems Manager access section further down the interface. For more information, see Accessing no-ingress EC2 instances with AWS Systems Manager. 
Warning
Creating an EC2 instance for your environment might result in possible charges to your AWS account for Amazon EC2. There is no additional cost to use Systems Manager to manage connections to your EC2 instance.


For Instance type, leave the default choice. This choice has relatively low RAM and vCPUs, which is sufficient for this tutorial.
Warning
Choosing instance types with more RAM and vCPUs might result in additional charges to your AWS account for Amazon EC2.


For Platform, choose the type of Amazon EC2 instance that you want: Amazon Linux or Ubuntu. AWS Cloud9 creates the instance and then connects the environment to it.


Choose a value for Cost-saving setting. When all web browser instances that are connected to the IDE for the environment are closed, AWS Cloud9 waits this amount of time and then shuts down the Amazon EC2 instance for the environment. 
Warning
Choosing a longer time period might result in more charges to your AWS account.


Expand Network settings (advanced).


AWS Cloud9 uses Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) to communicate with the newly created Amazon EC2 instance. For this tutorial, we recommend that you don't change the preselected default settings. With the default settings, AWS Cloud9 attempts to automatically use the default VPC with its single subnet in the same AWS account and AWS Region as the new environment.
You can find more information about Amazon VPC choices in Create an EC2 Environment with the Console, and in VPC settings for AWS Cloud9 Development Environments.


Add up to 50 tags by supplying a Key and a Value for each tag. The tags will be attached to the AWS Cloud9 environment as resource tags, and are propagated to the following underlying resources: the AWS CloudFormation stack, the Amazon EC2 instance, and Amazon EC2 security groups. You can find information about tags in Control Access Using AWS Resource Tags in the IAM User Guide. Also see the advanced information about tags.
Warning
If you update these tags after you create them, the changes are NOT automatically propagated to the underlying resources. For more information, see Propagating Tag Updates to Underlying Resources in the advanced information about tags.


Choose Next step.


On the Review page, choose Create environment. Wait while AWS Cloud9 creates your environment. This can take several minutes.
Note
If account creation fails, a banner is displayed at the top of the console page. Additionally, the card for the environment, if it exists, indicates that environment creation failed.


After AWS Cloud9 creates your environment, it displays the AWS Cloud9 IDE for the environment.
If AWS Cloud9 doesn't display the IDE after at least five minutes, there might be a problem with your web browser, your AWS access permissions, the instance, or the associated virtual private cloud (VPC). For possible fixes, see Cannot open an environment in Troubleshooting.
Next step
Step 2: Basic tour of the IDE