Quotas and Constraints for Amazon RDS
Following, you can find a description of the resource quotas and naming constraints for Amazon RDS.
Topics
 Quotas in Amazon RDS
 Naming Constraints in Amazon RDS
 Maximum Number of Database Connections
 File Size Limits in Amazon RDS
Quotas in Amazon RDS
Each AWS account has quotas, for each AWS Region, on the number of Amazon RDS resources that can be created. After a quota for a resource has been reached, additional calls to create that resource fail with an exception.
The following table lists the resources and their quotas per AWS Region.



Resource
Default Quota




Authorizations per DB security group
20


Burst balance (for instances <1 TiB)
3000 IOPS


Cross-region snapshot copy requests
5


DB instances
40


DB security groups
25


DB subnet groups
50


Event subscriptions
20


IAM roles per DB instance
5


Manual snapshots
100


Option groups
20


Parameter groups
50


Proxies
20


Read replicas per primary
5


Reserved DB instances
40


Rules per security group
20


Rules per virtual private cloud (VPC) security group
50 inbound, 50 outbound


Subnets per subnet group
20


Tags per resource
50


Total storage for all DB instances
100 TB


VPC security groups
5



Note
By default, you can have up to a total of 40 DB instances. RDS DB instances, Aurora DB instances, Amazon Neptune instances, and Amazon DocumentDB instances apply to this quota.
The following limitations apply to the Amazon RDS DB instances:
10 for each SQL Server edition (Enterprise, Standard, Web, and Express) under the "license-included" model
10 for Oracle under the "license-included" model
40 for MySQL, MariaDB, or PostgreSQL
40 for Oracle under the "bring-your-own-license" (BYOL) licensing model
If your application requires more DB instances, you can request additional DB instances by opening the Service Quotas console. In the navigation pane, choose AWS services. Choose Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS), choose a quota, and follow the directions to request a quota increase. For more information, see Requesting a Quota Increase in the Service Quotas User Guide.
Backups managed by AWS Backup are considered manual snapshots for the manual snapshots quota. For information about AWS Backup, see the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-backup/latest/devguide.
Naming Constraints in Amazon RDS
The following table describes naming constraints in Amazon RDS. 




Resource or Item
Constraints




DB instance identifier
Identifiers have these naming constraints: [See the AWS documentation website for more details]


Database name
Database name constraints differ for each database engine . For more information, see the available settings when creating each DB instance.  This approach doesn't apply to SQL Server. For SQL Server, you create your databases after you create your DB instance.


Master user name
Master user name constraints differ for each database engine. For more information, see the available settings when creating each DB instance.


Master password
The password for the database master user can include any printable ASCII character except /, ", @, or a space. Master password length constraints differ for each database engine. For more information, see the available settings when creating each DB instance.


DB parameter group name
These names have these constraints: [See the AWS documentation website for more details]


DB subnet group name
These names have these constraints: [See the AWS documentation website for more details]



Maximum Number of Database Connections
The maximum number of simultaneous database connections varies by the DB engine type and the memory allocation for the DB instance class. The maximum number of connections is set in the parameter group associated with the DB instance, except for Microsoft SQL Server, where it is set in the server properties for the DB instance in SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS).
Note
For Oracle, you set the maximum number of user processes and user and system sessions.
Maximum Database Connections
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]
Note
You might see fewer than the maximum number of DB connections. This is to avoid potential out-of-memory issues.
File Size Limits in Amazon RDS
File size limits apply to certain Amazon RDS DB instances. For more information, see the following engine-specific limits:
 MariaDB File Size Limits in Amazon RDS
 MySQL File Size Limits in Amazon RDS
 Oracle File Size Limits in Amazon RDS