Creating a MySQL DB Instance and Connecting to a Database on a MySQL DB Instance
The easiest way to create a DB instance is to use the AWS Management Console. After you have created the DB instance, you can use standard MySQL utilities such as MySQL Workbench to connect to a database on the DB instance.
Important
Before you can create or connect to a DB instance, you must complete the tasks in Setting Up for Amazon RDS.
Topics
 Creating a MySQL DB Instance
 Connecting to a Database on a DB Instance Running the MySQL Database Engine
 Deleting a DB Instance
Creating a MySQL DB Instance
The basic building block of Amazon RDS is the DB instance. This environment is where you run your MySQL databases.
Console
You can create a DB instance running MySQL with the AWS Management Console with Easy Create enabled or disabled. With Easy Create enabled, you specify only the DB engine type, DB instance size, and DB instance identifier. Easy Create uses the default setting for other configuration options. With Easy Create not enabled, you specify more configuration options when you create a database, including ones for availability, security, backups, and maintenance.
In this example, you use Easy Create to create a DB instance running the MySQL database engine with a db.t2.micro DB instance class.
Note
For information about creating DB instances with Easy Create not enabled, see Creating an Amazon RDS DB Instance.
To create a MySQL DB instance with Easy Create enabled


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon RDS console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/.


In the upper-right corner of the Amazon RDS console, choose the AWS Region in which you want to create the DB instance. 


In the navigation pane, choose Databases.


Choose Create database and make sure that Easy Create is chosen. 



In Configuration, choose MySQL.


For DB instance size, choose Free tier.


For DB instance identifier, enter a name for the DB instance, or leave the default name.


For Master username, enter a name for the master user, or leave the default name.


The Create database page should look similar to the following image.


To use an automatically generated master password for the DB instance, enable Auto generate a password.

To enter your master password, disable Auto generate a password, and then enter the same password in Master password and Confirm password.

(Optional) Open View default settings for Easy create.


You can examine the default settings used when Easy Create is enabled. If you want to change one or more settings during database creation, choose Standard Create to set them. The Editable after database creation column shows which options you can change after database creation. To change a setting with No in that column, use Standard Create. For settings with Yes in that column, you can either use Standard Create or modify the DB instance after it is created to change the setting.

Choose Create database.

If you chose to use an automatically generated password, the View credential details button appears on the Databases page.
To view the master username and password for the DB instance, choose View credential details.

You can use the username and password that appears to connect to the DB instance as the master user.
Important
You won't be able to view master user password again. If you don't record it, you might have to change it. If you need to change the master user password after the DB instance is available, you can modify the DB instance to do so. For more information about modifying a DB instance, see Modifying an Amazon RDS DB Instance.

In the Databases list, choose the name of the new MySQL DB instance.

On the RDS console, the details for new DB instance appear. The DB instance has a status of creating until the DB instance is ready to use. When the state changes to available, you can connect to the DB instance. Depending on the DB instance class and the amount of storage, it can take up to 20 minutes before the new instance is available. 

Connecting to a Database on a DB Instance Running the MySQL Database Engine
After Amazon RDS provisions your DB instance, you can use any standard SQL client application to connect to a database on the DB instance. In this example, you connect to a database on a MySQL DB instance using MySQL monitor commands. One GUI-based application you can use to connect is MySQL Workbench; for more information, go to the  Download MySQL Workbench page. For more information on using MySQL, go to the MySQL documentation. For information about installing MySQL (including the MySQL client), see Installing and Upgrading MySQL.
To connect to a database on a DB instance using MySQL monitor 


Find the endpoint (DNS name) and port number for your DB instance. 


Open the RDS console and then choose Databases to display a list of your DB instances. 


Choose the MySQL DB instance name to display its details. 


On the Connectivity & security tab, copy the endpoint. Also, note the port number. You need both the endpoint and the port number to connect to the DB instance. 



Download a SQL client that you can use to connect to the DB instance.


You can connect to an Amazon RDS MySQL DB instance by using tools like the MySQL command line utility. For more information on using the MySQL client, go to mysql — The MySQL Command-Line Client in the MySQL documentation. One GUI-based application you can use to connect is MySQL Workbench. For more information, go to the  Download MySQL Workbench page.

Connect to the a database on a MySQL DB instance. For example, enter the following command at a command prompt on a client computer to connect to a database on a MySQL DB instance using the MySQL client. Substitute the DNS name for your DB instance for , the master user name you used for , and provide the master password you used when prompted for a password.

PROMPT> mysql -h <endpoint> -P 3306 -u <mymasteruser> -p
After you enter the password for the user, you should see output similar to the following.
```
   Welcome to the MySQL monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
   Your MySQL connection id is 350
   Server version: 5.6.40-log MySQL Community Server (GPL)
Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the buffer.
mysql>
   ```
If you can't connect to your MySQL DB instance, two common causes of connection failures to a new DB instance are:
 The DB instance was created using a security group that does not authorize connections from the device or Amazon EC2 instance where the MySQL application or utility is running. If the DB instance was created in a VPC, it must have a VPC security group that authorizes the connections. If the DB instance was created outside of a VPC, it must have a DB security group that authorizes the connections. For more information, see Amazon Virtual Private Cloud VPCs and Amazon RDS.
 The DB instance was created using the default port of 3306, and your company has firewall rules blocking connections to that port from devices in your company network. To fix this failure, recreate the instance with a different port.
For more information about connecting to a MySQL DB instance, see Connecting to a DB Instance Running the MySQL Database Engine. For information on connection issues, see Can't Connect to Amazon RDS DB Instance.
Deleting a DB Instance
After you have connected to the sample DB instance that you created, you should delete the DB instance so you are no longer charged for it. 
To delete a DB instance with no final DB snapshot


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon RDS console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/.


In the navigation pane, choose Databases.


Choose the DB instance that you want to delete.


For Actions, choose Delete.


For Create final snapshot?, choose No, and select the acknowledgment. 


Choose Delete. 

