Connecting to a DB Instance Running the Microsoft SQL Server Database Engine
After Amazon RDS provisions your DB instance, you can use any standard SQL client application to connect to the DB instance. In this topic, you connect to your DB instance by using either Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) or SQL Workbench/J. 
For an example that walks you through the process of creating and connecting to a sample DB instance, see Creating a Microsoft SQL Server DB Instance and Connecting to a DB Instance. 
Connecting to Your DB Instance with Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio
In this procedure, you connect to your sample DB instance by using Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS). To download a standalone version of this utility, see Download SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) in the Microsoft documentation.
To connect to a DB instance using SSMS


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon RDS console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/.


In the upper-right corner of the Amazon RDS console, choose the AWS Region of your DB instance. 


Find the Domain Name System (DNS) name and port number for your DB instance:


Open the RDS console and choose Databases to display a list of your DB instances.


Choose the SQL Server DB instance name to display its details.


On the Connectivity & security tab, copy the endpoint. Also, note the port number. You need both the endpoint and the port number to connect to the DB instance.



Start SQL Server Management Studio. 


The Connect to Server dialog box appears.



Provide the information for your DB instance:


For Server type, choose Database Engine. 


For Server name, enter the DNS name and port number of your DB instance, separated by a comma. 
Important
Change the colon between the DNS name and port number to a comma. 
For example, your server name should look like the following.
database-2.cg034itsfake.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com,1433


For Authentication, choose SQL Server Authentication. 


For Login, enter the master user name for your DB instance. 


For Password, enter the password for your DB instance. 


Choose Connect. 


After a few moments, SSMS connects to your DB instance. If you can't connect to your DB instance, see Security Group Considerations and Troubleshooting Connections to Your SQL Server DB Instance. 


Your SQL Server DB instance comes with SQL Server's standard built-in system databases (master, model, msdb, and tempdb). To explore the system databases, do the following:


In SSMS, on the View menu, choose Object Explorer.


Expand your DB instance, expand Databases, and then expand System Databases.



Your SQL Server DB instance also comes with a database named rdsadmin. Amazon RDS uses this database to store the objects that it uses to manage your database. The rdsadmin database also includes stored procedures that you can run to perform advanced tasks. For more information, see Common DBA Tasks for Microsoft SQL Server.


You can now start creating your own databases and running queries against your DB instance and databases as usual. To run a test query against your DB instance, do the following:


In SSMS, on the File menu point to New and then choose Query with Current Connection.


Enter the following SQL query.
select @@VERSION


Run the query. SSMS returns the SQL Server version of your Amazon RDS DB instance.



Connecting to Your DB Instance with SQL Workbench/J
This example shows how to connect to a DB instance running the Microsoft SQL Server database engine by using the SQL Workbench/J database tool. To download SQL Workbench/J, see SQL Workbench/J. 
SQL Workbench/J uses JDBC to connect to your DB instance. You also need the JDBC driver for SQL Server. To download this driver, see Microsoft JDBC Drivers 4.1 (Preview) and 4.0 for SQL Server. 
To connect to a DB instance using SQL Workbench


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon RDS console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/.


In the upper-right corner of the Amazon RDS console, choose the AWS Region of your DB instance. 


Find the DNS name and port number for your DB instance: 


Open the RDS console, then choose Databases to display a list of your DB instances. 


Choose the name of your SQL Server DB instance to display its details. 



On the Connectivity tab, copy the endpoint. Also, note the port used by the DB instance. 


Open SQL Workbench/J. The Select Connection Profile dialog box appears, as shown following.



In the first box at the top of the dialog box, enter a name for the profile. 


For Driver, choose SQL JDBC 4.0. 


For URL, enter jdbc:sqlserver://, then enter the endpoint of your DB instance. For example, the URL value might be the following.


jdbc:sqlserver://sqlsvr-pdz.abcd12340.us-west-2.rds.amazonaws.com:1433


For Username, enter the master user name for the DB instance. 


For Password, enter the password for the master user. 


Choose the save icon in the dialog toolbar, as shown following.



Choose OK. After a few moments, SQL Workbench/J connects to your DB instance. If you can't connect to your DB instance, see Security Group Considerations and Troubleshooting Connections to Your SQL Server DB Instance. 


In the query pane, enter the following SQL query.


select @@VERSION

Choose the Execute icon in the toolbar, as shown following.


The query returns the version information for your DB instance, similar to the following.
Microsoft SQL Server 2012 - 11.0.2100.60 (X64)
Security Group Considerations
To connect to your DB instance, your DB instance must be associated with a security group. This security group contains the IP addresses and network configuration that you use to access the DB instance. You might have associated your DB instance with an appropriate security group when you created your DB instance. If you assigned a default, no-configured security group when you created your DB instance, your DB instance firewall prevents connections.
In some cases, you might need to create a new security group to enable access. If so, the type of security group to create depends on what Amazon EC2 platform your DB instance is on. To determine your platform, see Determining Whether You Are Using the EC2-VPC or EC2-Classic Platform. In general, if your DB instance is on the EC2-Classic platform, you create a DB security group. If your DB instance is on the VPC platform, you create a VPC security group.
For instructions on creating a new security group, see Controlling Access with Security Groups. For a topic that walks you through the process of setting up rules for your VPC security group, see Tutorial: Create an Amazon VPC for Use with a DB Instance.
After you have created the new security group, modify your DB instance to associate it with the security group. For more information, see Modifying an Amazon RDS DB Instance. 
You can enhance security by using SSL to encrypt connections to your DB instance. For more information, see Using SSL with a Microsoft SQL Server DB Instance. 
Troubleshooting Connections to Your SQL Server DB Instance
The following table shows error messages that you might encounter when you attempt to connect to your SQL Server DB instance. For more information on connection issues, see Can't Connect to Amazon RDS DB Instance.

[See the AWS documentation website for more details]