Build and automate an operating system image deployment using the EC2 Image Builder console
The following steps guide you through an image deployment with Image Builder from the EC2 Image Builder console.


From the EC2 Image Builder landing page, select Create image pipeline.


The following tabs contain information about each of the pages for which you must provide input to create your image pipeline.



[ Define recipe ]


On the Define Recipe page, create an image recipe, which includes your source image and components. 


Choose your source image. The source image includes the image OS and the image to configure. After selecting your image OS, choose from the following options to select an image to configure.


Select an image from the managed images, which includes Image Builder images to help you get started, images that you have already created, and images that have been shared with you. To select an image, enter the image ARN in the text box, or select Browse images to view managed images. All managed images provided by AWS are 64-bit operating systems.


Use a custom AMI by entering the AMI ID. 


Select the checkbox "Always build latest version" if you want Image Builder to use semantic versioning to set the version number for your image. If this box is not selected, Image Builder will always use the same version number. Checking this box does not initiate automatic builds when there are updates to your selected image version unless you have set the build pipeline to run automatically using the job scheduler under Configure Pipeline. 


Select the Build components. Components are installation packages, security hardening steps, and tests to be consumed by the image recipe when building your image. After an image recipe has been created, its components cannot be modified or replaced. If you want to update the components in an image recipe, create a new image recipe or image recipe version. 
Important
Components are installed in the order they are selected. You cannot reorder components after they have been selected.
Components include two component types.


Build components. Build components are installation packages and security hardening steps. You can enter a component ARN or browse and select from a list of Image Builder components to help you get started. To create a new component, select Create Component. See Create New Component for information about how to create a component. Enter or select the components in the order that you want them to run in the image build pipeline. 


Tests. Test components are tests to perform on the output image built by your image pipeline. Enter a test component ARN or browse and select from a list of Image Builder test components to help you get started. To create a new component, select Create Component. See Create New Component for information about how to create a component. Enter or select the components in the order that you want them to run in the image build pipeline.


After you have entered your source image and components, select Next. 





[ Configure pipeline ]


From the Configure Pipeline page, define the image pipeline infrastructure and build schedule. 


Provide the following specifications under Pipeline details. 


Enter a Name for your image pipeline. You must use a unique name for your image pipeline. 


Provide an optional Description for your image deployment pipeline. 


Select an IAM role to associate with the instance profile or Create a new role. If you create a new role, Image Builder will take you to the IAM console. As a starting point, use the following IAM role policies (you must attach both policies): EC2InstanceProfileForImageBuilder and AmazonSSMManagedInstanceCore. 
Important
Make sure that your role has permissions to run the build and test components included in your image. If you have logging configured, the instance profile specified in your InfrastructureConfiguration must have the necessary permissions (s3:PutObject) for the target bucket. You can do this by including an inline policy in the role associated with the instance profile or by atttaching the S3FullAccess managed policy to the instance profile. 




Select a Build schedule to run your image pipeline. 


If you select Manual, you can choose when to run the pipeline. When you want to run the pipeline, select Run pipeline on the Pipeline details page. 


If you select Schedule builder, you can set the build pipeline to run automatically using the job scheduler. Enter the cadence after Run pipeline every. You can select to run the pipeline daily, weekly, or monthly. In order to set the build pipeline to build from the latest image version, you must select the checkbox Always build latest version under Define Recipe. 


If you select CRON expression, you can set the build pipeline to run using a syntax that specifies the time and intervals to run it. Enter the expression in the text box. 
To see what resources are created when the build pipeline runs, see Resources created.




Optionally, enter the Infrastructure specifications to define the infrastructure for your image. These settings are associated with the EC2 instance that is launched in your account for the purpose of building the image. 


Select an Instance type. The instance type selected should adhere to the requirements of the software that you plan to run on your instance. For more information about EC2 instance types, see Instance Types in the EC2 User Guide. 


If you want to receive notifications and alerts from Image Builder regarding any steps performed in your image pipeline, you can enter an SNS topic ARN to be notified by the AWS Simple Notification Service (SNS). For more information, see the Amazon Simple Notification Service Developer Guide.


Under Troubleshooting settings, provide the following information. These settings are useful for performing troubleshooting on your instance if the image build fails. 


Under Key pair name, select an existing key pair from the dropdown list or create a new one. 


If you select Create key pair name to create a new key pair, you are directed to the Amazon EC2 console. 


From the Amazon EC2 console, choose Create a new key pair.


Enter a name for the key pair.


Then choose Download Key Pair.
Important
This is the only chance for you to save the private key file, so be sure to download it and save it in a safe place. You must provide the name of your key pair when you launch an instance, and provide the corresponding private key each time that you connect to the instance. 


Return to the Image Builder console and choose the refresh icon next to the Key pair name dropdown. The newly created key pair appears in the dropdown list. For more information about key pairs, see Amazon EC2 Key Pairs.


Select whether or not you want to Terminate your instance upon failure by selecting the check box. If you want to be able to troubleshoot the instance when the image build fails, then make sure the check box is not checked.
Note
If the option to terminate your instance upon failure is not selected, the Auto Scaling group and launch template used to launch the instance are not removed from your account when the build fails. You must remove the Auto Scaling group and launch template resources manually.


Under S3 Logs, select the S3 bucket to which you want to send your instance log files. To browse and select your Amazon S3 bucket locations, select Browse S3. The logs show steps and error messages for activity on the EC2 instance during the image build process.


Under Advanced Settings, provide the following information if you want to select a VPC to launch your instance.


Select a Virtual Private Cloud into which to launch your instance. For more information about VPCs, see the VPC User Guide. You can also choose to Create a new VPC. If you select to do this, you will be taken to the VPC console. In order to allow communication between your VPC and the internet, you must enable this connectivity with an internet gateway. To add an internet gateway to your VPC, follow the steps in Creating and Attaching an Internet Gateway in the Amazon VPC User Guide.


If you select a VPC, choose the Public subnet ID associated with your selected VPC or select Create new subnet. For more information, see VPCs and Subnets. 


If you select a VPC, select the Security groups that are associated with your VPC, or select Create a new security group. For help with security groups, see Security Groups for Your VPC. 
Note
EC2 Image Builder does not support EC2-Classic. If you build an image in an AWS Region where your account uses EC2-Classic or does not have a default VPC, you must select a VPC configuration. For more information, see Default VPC and Default Subnets in the Amazon VPC User Guide.


After you have entered all of your infrastructure specifications, choose Next. 







[ Configure additional settings ]


From the Configure additional settings page, you can optionally define the test and distribution settings, along with other optional configuration parameters that are performed after the image is built. If you want to define these configurations, provide the following information. 


Under Associate license configuration to AMI, you can choose to associate the output AMI with a pre-existing license configuration that you created with AWS License Manager. Select one or more unique license configuration IDs from the dropdown. If you want to create a new license configuration, select Create new License Configuration. This will take you to the License Manager console. For more information, see What Is AWS License Manager? 


Provide the following specifications under Output AMI.


Enter a Name for your output AMI. When the image pipeline has completed, this will be the name of the created AMI. 


Under AMI tags, add a Key and optional Value tag for your image. For more information about tagging resources, see Tagging Your Amazon EC2 Resources. 




Under AMI distribution settings, you can specify other AWS Regions to which you would like your AMI to be copied. You can also configure permissions for the outbound AMI. You can choose to allow all AWS accounts, or only specific accounts, to launch the created AMI. If you choose to allow all AWS accounts to launch the AMI, the output AMI will be public. 


Select the AWS Regions to distribute the AMI. Your current Region is included by default. 


Under Launch permissions, you can set the AMI as Private or Public. The default setting is Private. When you set launch permissions to private, you can grant permissions to specific AWS accounts. If you set them to public, all AWS users will have access to the output AMI. 


Select Public or Private.


If you select Private, enter the account numbers of the accounts to which you want to grant launch permissions and select Add. 











On the Review and create page, you can review all of your settings before you create your image pipeline. Review your Recipe details, your Pipeline configuration details, and your Additional settings. If you want to make changes, select Edit to return to the specification settings that you want to change or update. When the settings reflect your desired configuration, select Create Pipeline. 


If the creation of your image pipeline fails, you will receive a message with the returned errors. Address these errors and try to create your pipeline again.


When your image pipeline creation succeeds, you are taken to the Image pipelines page. From here, you can manage, delete, disable, view details about, and run your image pipeline. 

