EC2 Image Builder and interface VPC endpoints (AWS PrivateLink)
You can establish a private connection between your VPC and EC2 Image Builder by creating an interface VPC endpoint. Interface endpoints are powered by AWS PrivateLink, a technology that enables you to privately access Image Builder APIs without an internet gateway, NAT device, VPN connection, or AWS Direct Connect connection. Instances in your VPC don't need public IP addresses to communicate with Image Builder APIs. Traffic between your VPC and Image Builder does not leave the Amazon network. 
Each interface endpoint is represented by one or more Elastic Network Interfaces in your subnets. 
For more information, see Interface VPC endpoints (AWS PrivateLink) in the Amazon VPC User Guide. 
Considerations for Image Builder VPC endpoints
Before you set up an interface VPC endpoint for Image Builder, ensure that you review Interface endpoint properties and limitations in the Amazon VPC User Guide. 
Image Builder supports making calls to all of its API actions from your VPC. 
Creating an interface VPC endpoint for Image Builder
You can create a VPC endpoint for the Image Builder service using either the Amazon VPC console or the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI). For more information, see Creating an interface endpoint in the Amazon VPC User Guide.
Create a VPC endpoint for Image Builder using the following service name: 
 com.amazonaws.region.imagebuilder 
If you enable private DNS for the endpoint, you can make API requests to Image Builder using its default DNS name for the Region, for example, imagebuilder.us-east-1.amazonaws.com. 
For more information, see Accessing a service through an interface endpoint in the Amazon VPC User Guide.
Creating a VPC endpoint policy for Image Builder
You can attach an endpoint policy to your VPC endpoint that controls access to Image Builder. The policy specifies the following information:
 The principal that can perform actions.
 The actions that can be performed.
 The resources on which actions can be performed.
Important
When a non-default policy is applied to an interface VPC endpoint for EC2 Image Builder, certain failed API requests, such as those failing from RequestLimitExceeded, might not be logged to AWS CloudTrail or Amazon CloudWatch.
For more information, see Controlling access to services with VPC endpoints in the Amazon VPC User Guide. 
Example: VPC endpoint policy for Image Builder actions
The following is an example of an endpoint policy for Image Builder that denies permission to delete Image Builder images and components. The example policy also grants permission to perform all other EC2 Image Builder actions. 
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
    {
        "Action": "imagebuilder:*",
        "Effect": "Allow",
        "Resource": "*"
    },
    {
        "Action": [
            "imagebuilder: DeleteImage"
        ],
        "Effect": "Deny",
        "Resource": "*",
    },
    {
        "Action": [
            "imagebuilder: DeleteComponent"
        ],
        "Effect": "Deny",
        "Resource": "*",
    }]
}