
This guide is for the Snowball (50 TB or 80 TB of storage space). If you are looking for documentation for the Snowball Edge, see the AWS Snowball Edge Developer Guide.

AWS Key Management Service in Snowball
AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) is a managed service that makes it easy for you to create and control the encryption keys used to encrypt your data. AWS KMS uses hardware security modules (HSMs) to protect the security of your keys. Specifically, the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) for the AWS KMS key that you choose for a job in AWS Snowball is associated with a KMS key. That KMS key is used to encrypt the unlock code for your job. The unlock code is used to decrypt the top layer of encryption on your manifest file. The encryption keys stored within the manifest file are used to encrypt and de-encrypt the data on the device.
In Snowball, you can choose an existing KMS key. Specifying the ARN for an AWS KMS key tells Snowball which AWS KMS master key to use to encrypt the unique keys on the Snowball.
Your data is encrypted in the local memory of your workstation before it is transferred to the Snowball. The Snowball never contains any discoverable keys.
In Amazon S3, there is a server-side-encryption option that uses AWS KMS–managed keys (SSE-KMS). For more information on supported SSE in AWS Snowball, see Server-Side Encryption in AWS Snowball.
Using the AWS-Managed Customer Master Key for Snowball
If you'd like to use the AWS-managed customer master key (CMK) for Snowball created for your account, use the following procedure.
To select the AWS KMS CMK for your job


On the AWS Snowball Management Console, choose Create job.


Choose your job type, and then choose Next.


Provide your shipping details, and then choose Next.


Fill in your job's details, and then choose Next.


Set your security options. Under Encryption, for KMS key either choose the AWS-managed CMK or a custom CMK that was previously created in AWS KMS, or choose Enter a key ARN if you need to enter a key that is owned by a separate account.
Note
The AWS KMS key ARN is a globally unique identifier for the AWS KMS CMK.


Choose Next to finish selecting your AWS KMS CMK.


Creating a Custom KMS Envelope Encryption Key
You have the option of using your own custom AWS KMS envelope encryption key with AWS Snowball. If you choose to create your own key, that key must be created in the same region that your job was created in.
To create your own AWS KMS key for a job, see Creating Keys in the AWS Key Management Service Developer Guide.