Create an Amazon Connect instance
The first step in setting up your Amazon Connect contact center is to create a virtual contact center instance. Each instance contains all the resources and settings related to your contact center. 
Things to know before you begin

When you sign up for Amazon Web Services (AWS), your AWS account is automatically signed up for all services in AWS, including Amazon Connect. You are charged only for the services that you use. To create an AWS account, see How do I create and activate an AWS account?
To allow an IAM user to create an instance, ensure that they have the permissions granted by the AmazonConnectFullAccess policy.
Amazon Connect is not available to customers in India using Amazon Web Services through Amazon Internet Services Pvt. Ltd (AISPL). You will receive an error message if you try to create an instance in Amazon Connect.
When you create an instance, you must decide how you want to manage users. You can't change the identity management option after you create the instance. For more information, see Plan your identity management in Amazon Connect.

Step 1: Identity management
Permissions to access Amazon Connect features and resource are assigned to user accounts within Amazon Connect. When you create an instance, you must decide how you want to manage users. You can't change the identity management option after you create the instance. For more information, see Plan your identity management in Amazon Connect.
To configure identity management for your instance


Open the Amazon Connect console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/connect/.


Choose Get started. If you have previously created an instance, choose Add an instance instead.


Choose one of the following options:
    Store users within Amazon Connect - Use Amazon Connect to create and manage user accounts.
    Link to an existing directory - Use an AWS Directory Service directory to manage your users. You can use each directory with one Amazon Connect instance at a time.
    SAML 2.0-based authentication - Use an existing identity provider (IdP) to federate users with Amazon Connect.


If you chose Store users within Amazon Connect or SAML 2.0-based authentication, provide the left-most label for Access URL. This label must be unique across all Amazon Connect instances in all Regions. You can't change the access URL after you create your instance.


If you chose Link to an existing directory, select the AWS Directory Service directory for Directory. The directory name is used as the left-most label for Access URL.


Choose Next step.


Step 2: Administrator
After you specify the user name of the administrator for the Amazon Connect instance, a user account is created in Amazon Connect and the user is assigned the Admin security profile.
To specify the administrator for your instance


Do one of the following, based on the option that you chose in the previous step:
    If you chose Store users within Amazon Connect, select Add a new admin, and provide a name, password, and email address for the user account in Amazon Connect.
    If you chose Link to an existing directory, for Username, type the name of an existing user in the AWS Directory Service directory. The password for this user is managed through the directory.
    If you chose SAML 2.0-based authentication, select Add a new admin and provide a name for the user account in Amazon Connect. The password for this user is managed through the IdP.


Choose Next step.


Step 3: Telephony options
Use the options in this section to choose whether you want your agents to receive calls from customers, make outbound calls, and hear early media audio.
Early media
When early media audio is enabled, for outbound calls your agents can hear pre-connection audio such as busy signals, failure-to-connect errors, or other informational messages provided by telephony providers.
By default, early media is enabled for you. Note the following exception:
 Your instance was created before April 17, 2020, and you weren't enrolled in the preview program. You need to enable early media audio using the option described in this procedure.
To configure telephony options for your instance


(Optional) To enable customers to call into your contact center, choose I want to handle incoming calls with Amazon Connect.


(Optional) To enable outbound calling from your contact center, choose I want to make outbound calls with Amazon Connect.


(Optional) To enable agents to hear pre-connection audio such as busy signals or "This phone number has been disconnected and is no longer in service," choose I want to enable early media.


Choose Next step.


Step 4: Data storage
When you create an instance, by default we create an Amazon S3 bucket. Data, such as reports and recordings of conversations, is encrypted using AWS Key Management Service, and then stored in the Amazon S3 bucket.
This bucket and key are used for both recordings of conversations and exported reports. Alternatively, you can specify separate buckets and keys for recordings of conversations and exported reports.
By default, Amazon Connect creates buckets for storing call recordings, chat transcripts, exported reports, and contact flow logs. 
 When a bucket is created to store call recordings, call recording is enabled at the instance level. The next step for setting up this functionality is to set up recording behavior in a contact flow.
 When a bucket is created to store chat transcripts, chat transcription is enabled at the instance level. Now all chat transcripts will be stored. Only if you want to monitor chat conversations do you need to set up recording behavior in a contact flow.
 Live media streaming is not enabled by default.
To customize the data storage settings for your instance or enable/disable certain functionality:


Choose Customize settings.


(Optional) To specify the bucket and KMS key for recordings of voice conversations, choose Call recordings, Edit, specify the bucket name and prefix, select the KMS key by name, and then choose Save. 


(Optional) To specify the bucket and KMS key for recordings (transcripts) of chat conversations, choose Chat transcripts, Edit, specify the bucket name and prefix, select the KMS key by name, and then choose Save. 


(Optional) To specify the bucket and KMS key for exported reports, choose Exported reports, Edit, specify the bucket name and prefix, select the KMS key by name, and then choose Save.


(Optional) To disable contact flow logs, clear Enable Contact flow logs.


Choose Next step.


Step 5: Review and create
When you are finished configuring your instance, you can create it.
To create your instance


Review the configuration choices. Remember that you cannot change the identity management options after you create the instance.


(Optional) To change any of the configuration options, choose Change.


Choose Create instance.


(Optional) To continue configuring your instance, choose Get started and then choose Let's go. If you prefer, you can access your instance and configure it later on. For more information, see Next steps.


If you chose to manage your users directly within Amazon Connect or through an AWS Directory Service directory, you can access the instance using its access URL. If you chose to manage your users through SAML-based authentication, you can access the instance using the IdP.
Next steps
After you create an instance, you can assign your contact center a phone number or import your own phone number. For more information, see Set up phone numbers for your contact center.