Provide access to the Contact Control Panel
Agents use the Amazon Connect Contact Control Panel (CCP) to communicate with contacts. But before agents can access to the CCP and handle contacts, there are a few things you need to do: 


Add agents to your instance. This creates a user name and password for them to log into the CCP. 


Assign them the "Agent" security profile. This grants them permissions to access the CCP.


Give them their user name, password, and a link to the CCP so they can log in. The CCP is a website. The URL to your CCP is:
    https://name of your instance.awsapps.com/connect/ccp-v2/


We recommend telling agents to bookmark the URL to the CCP so they can access it easily.

Train your agents on the CCP:
    Watch Training video: How to use the CCPTraining video
    Download a quick start cheat sheet.

Grant microphone access in Chrome, Firefox, or Edge
If agents experience problems with their microphone, they may need to grant microphone access in their browser. Choose one of the following articles to get the steps appropriate for your browser:
 Use your camera and microphone in Chrome
 Firefox Page Info window
 Windows 10 camera, microphone, and privacy: includes instructions for Microsoft Edge
Important
A change introduced in Google Chrome version 64 may result in issues with receiving calls if you are using an embedded Contact Control Panel (CCP) softphone using the Amazon Connect Streams library. If you are experiencing issues with your microphone when using Chrome version 64, you can resolve the issue by building and deploying the latest version of the Amazon Connect Streams API, following the steps under Downloading Streams.
You can also resolve the issue by using Firefox as your browser.
How to get help for CCP issues
Agents: Contact your manager or the technical support provided by your company. 
Amazon Connect Administrators: See Troubleshooting Issues with the Contact Control Panel (CCP) for detailed troubleshooting steps. Or, log in to the AWS Management Console (https://console.aws.amazon.com/console) using your AWS account. In the upper right corner of the page, choose Support, and open a support ticket.