Enable Contact Lens for Amazon Connect
To enable Contact Lens in a contact flow, add a Set recording and analytics behavior  block for the flow, and configure it for Contact Lens.
Tip
If you want to continue using Contact Lens to collect data after transferring a contact to another agent or queue, you need to add another Set recording and analytics behavior  block with Enable analytics enabled for the flow. This is because a transfer generates a second contact ID and CTR. Contact Lens needs to run on that CTR as well.
To enable Contact Lens in a contact flow


Add the Set recording and analytics behavior  block to a contact flow.


In the contact block, under Call recording, choose On, Agent and Customer.


You need both agent and customer call recordings to use Content Lens.



Select Enable Contact Lens for speech analytics. 



Choose the language.


Choose Save.


If the contact is going to be transferred to another agent or queue, repeat these steps to add another Set recording and analytics behavior  block with Enable Contact Lens for speech analytics enabled. 


How to enable redaction of sensitive data
To enable redaction of sensitive data in a contact flow, choose Redact sensitive data.

Review sensitive data redaction for accuracy
The redaction feature is designed to identify and remove sensitive data. However, due to the predictive nature of machine learning, it may not identify and remove all instances of sensitive data in a transcript generated by Contact Lens. We recommend you review any redacted output to ensure it meets your needs.
Important
The redaction feature does not meet the requirements for de-identification under medical privacy laws like the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), so we recommend you continue to treat it as protected health information after redaction.
For the location of redacted files and examples, see Example Contact Lens output files.
Dynamically enable Contact Lens using contact attributes
You can dynamically enable Contact Lens and the redaction of the output files based on the language of the customer. For example, for customers using en-US, you may want only a redacted file whereas for those using en-GB, you may want both the original and redacted output files.
 Redaction: choose one of the following (case sensitive)
   None
   RedactedOnly
   RedactedandOriginal
 Language: choose one of the following (case sensitive)
   en-US
   en-GB
   en-IN
   en-AU
   es-US: Redaction is not supported for this language
You can set these attributes in the following ways:
 User defined: use a Set contact attributes block. For general instructions about using this block, see Using a Set contact attributes block. Define the Destination key and Value for redaction and language as needed. 
The following image shows how to use contact attributes for redaction: 

The following image show how to use contact attributes for language:

 Use a Lambda function. This is similar to how you set up user-defined contact attributes. A Lambda function can return the result as a key-value pair, depending on the language of the Lambda response. The following example shows a Lambda response in JSON: 
{
     'redaction_option': 'RedactedOnly',
     'language': 'en-US'
  }