Contact block: Get customer input
Contact flow types
You can use this block in the following contact flow types:
 Inbound contact flow
 Customer queue flow
 Transfer to Agent flow
 Transfer to Queue flow
Description

It plays a prompt to get a response from the customer. For example, "Press 1 for Sales, press 2 for Support." 
When customers enter DTMF input, the prompt is interruptible. 
When an Amazon Lex bot plays a voice prompt, customers can interrupt it with their voice. To set this up, use the barge-in-enabled session attribute.
It then branches based on the customer's input.
This block works for chat only when Amazon Lex is used.

Properties

You can configure this block to accept DTMF input, a chat response, or an Amazon Lex intent.
DTMF tab properties

Audio prompt: Select from a list of default audio prompts, or upload your own audio prompt. 
Set timeout: Specify how long to wait while the user decides how they want to respond to the prompt.

Amazon Lex tab properties

Lex bot properties: After you create your Lex bot, enter the name and alias of the bot here. Only published bots appear in the drop-down list.

Important
In a production environment, always use a different alias than $LATEST. Only use $LATEST for manual testing. If the bot alias is $LATEST Lex invocations are throttled. For more information, see Runtime Service Quotas.
Session attributes: Specify attributes that apply to the current contact's session only. 


Configurable time-outs for voice input
To configure time-out values for voice contacts, use the following session attributes in the Get customer input block that calls your Lex bot. These attributes allow you to specify how long to wait for the customer to finish speaking before Amazon Lex collects speech input from callers, such as answering a yes/no question, or providing a date or credit card number. 
 Max Speech Duration
x-amz-lex:max-speech-duration-ms:[intentName]:[slotToElicit]
How long the customer speaks before the input is truncated and returned to Amazon Connect. You can increase the time when a lot of input is expected or you want to give customers more time to provide information. 
Default = 13000 milliseconds (13 seconds). The maximum allowed value is 15000 milliseconds. 
Important
If you set Max Speech Duration to more than 15000 milliseconds, the contact is routed down the Error branch. 
 Start Silence Threshold
x-amz-lex:start-silence-threshold-ms:[intentName]:[slotToElicit]
How long to wait before assuming that the customer isn't going to speak. You can increase the allotted time in situations where you’d like to allow the customer more time to find or recall information before speaking. For example, you might want to give customers more time to get out their credit card so they can enter the number. 
Default = 4000 milliseconds (4 seconds).
 End Silence Threshold
x-amz-lex:end-silence-threshold-ms:[intentName]:[slotToElicit] 
How long to wait after the customer stops speaking before assuming the utterance has concluded. You can increase the allotted time in situations where periods of silence are expected while providing input. 
Default = 600 milliseconds (0.6 seconds)
Barge-in configuration and usage for Amazon Lex
You can allow customers to interrupt the Amazon Lex bot mid-sentence using their voice, without waiting for it to finishing speaking. Customers familiar with choosing from a menu of options, for example, can now do so, without having to listen to the entire prompt.
To set up this functionality, set the barge-in-enabled session attribute in the Get customer input block that calls your Lex bot. This attribute only controls Amazon Lex barge-in; it doesn't control DTMF barge-in. 
 Barge-in
x-amz-lex:barge-in-enabled:[intentName]:[slotToElicit]
Barge-in is disabled globally by default. You must set the session attribute to enable it at the global, bot, or slot levels. For more information, see How to use Lex session attributes.

Intents

Enter the intents you created in Amazon Lex. They are case sensitive!


Configuration tips

When you use text, either for text-to-speech or chat, you can use a maximum of 3,000 billed characters (6,000 total characters).
Amazon Lex bots support both spoken utterances and keypad input when used in a contact flow.
You can prompt contacts to end their input with a pound key # and to cancel it using the star key *. When you use a Lex bot, if you don't prompt customers to end their input with #, they will end up waiting five seconds for Lex to stop waiting for additional key presses. It's not possible to configure Lex to wait a shorter length of time. 
To control time-out  functionality, you can use Lex session attributes in this block, or in set them in your Lex Lambda function. If you choose to set the attributes in a Lex Lambda function, the default values are used until the Lex bot is invoked. For more information, see Using Lambda Functions in the Amazon Lex Developer Guide. 
When you specify one of the session attributes described in this article, you can use wildcards. They let you set multiple slots for an intent or bots.

Following are some examples of how you can use wildcards:
   To set all slots for a specific intent, such as PasswordReset, to 2000 milliseconds:
Name = `x-amz-lex:max-speech-duration-ms:PasswordReset:*`

Value = 2000



To set all slots for all bots to 4000 milliseconds: 
Name = x-amz-lex:max-speech-duration-ms:*:*
Value = 4000


Wildcards apply across bots but not across blocks in a contact flow. 
For example, you have a Get_Account_Number bot. In the contact flow, you have two Get customer input blocks. The first block sets the session attribute with a wildcard. The second one doesn't set the attribute. In this scenario, the change in behavior for the bot applies only to the first Get customer input block, where the session attribute is set. 
 Because you can specify that session attributes apply to the intent and slot level, you can specify that the attribute is set only when you're collecting a certain type of input. For example, you can specify a longer Start Silence Threshold when you're collecting an account number than when you're collecting a date. 
Configured block
When this block is configured, it looks similar to the following image:

Sample flows
See these sample flows for scenarios that use this block:
 Sample inbound flow (first contact experience)
 Sample interruptible queue flow with callback 
 Sample queue configurations 
 Sample recording behavior 
Scenarios
See these topics for scenarios that use this block:
 Add an Amazon Lex bot
 How to use the same bot for voice and chat
 Add text-to-speech to prompts