Contact block: Play prompt
Contact flow types
You can use this block in the following contact flow types:
 Inbound contact flow
 Customer Queue flow
 Customer Whisper flow
 Agent Whisper flow
 Transfer to Agent flow
 Transfer to Queue flow
Description

This block can play an interruptible audio prompt, play a text-to-speech message, or send a chat response.
Amazon Connect includes a set of pre-recorded prompts for you to use. However, you can record and upload your audio prompts. For instructions, see Create prompts.

Properties
The properties give you different ways to choose the prompt to be played:
 Select from the prompt library (audio): Choose from one of the pre-recorded prompts included with Amazon Connect, or record and upload your own prompt.

 Select dynamically: 


You can select which prompt to play by using an attribute. For example, in the Play prompt block, choose User Defined, and then enter a name for your attribute. In the following example, we use Company_Welcome_Message.



Add Set contact attributes blocks to your flow. Configure each one to play the appropriate audio prompt. For example, the first one might play the .wav file for when your contact center is open. The second one might play the .wav file for when it's closed.
The following image shows how you might configure a Set contact attributes block. 



Connect the Set contact attributes blocks to the Play prompt block. 

 Text-to-speech or chat text: You have two options: 
   Enter text: To play text, Amazon Connect sends it to Amazon Polly, a service that converts text into lifelike speech using Speech Synthesis Markup Language (SSML). Amazon Polly returns the speech to Amazon Connect to play.

   Enter dynamically: Upload .wav files that should be played, based on the value of the attribute.
 Interpret as: The default setting in a contact flow block for interpreting text-to-speech is Text. To use SSML for text-to-speech in your contact flow blocks, set the Interpret as field to SSML as shown in the following image. 



When you add a prompt to a contact flow, you can use SSML tags to provide a more personalized experience for your customers. SSML tags are a way to control how Amazon Polly generates speech from the text you provide.
To learn which SSML tags Amazon Connect supports, see SSML tags supported by Amazon Connect. 
Configuration tips
When you use text, either for text-to-speech or chat, you can use a maximum of 3,000 billed characters (6,000 total characters). You can also specify text in a flow using a contact attribute.
Configured block
When this block is configured, it looks similar to the following image:

Sample flows
All of the sample flows use the Play prompt block. Take a look at the Sample inbound flow (first contact experience) to see a Play prompt for chat and one for audio.