Set the hours of operation and timezone for a queue
The first thing you need to do when you set up a queue is to specify the hours of operation and timezone. The hours may be referenced in contact flows. For example, when routing contacts to agents, you might use the Check hours of operation block first, and then route the contact to the appropriate queue. 
To set the hours of operation and timezone for a queue


Choose Routing, Hours of operation.


To create a template, choose Add new hours and enter a name and a description.


For Time zone, select a value.


For Add new, set new hours.


Choose Save.


Now you can specify these the hours of operation when you create a queue, and check them in the Check hours of operation block.


How to specify midnight
To specify midnight, enter 12:00AM.
For example, if you want to set your hours to 10:00AM to midnight, you would enter: 10:00AM to 12:00AM. Your call center would be open for 14 hours. Here's the math: 
 10:00AM-12:00PM = 2 hours
 12:00PM-12:00AM = 12 hours
 Total = 14 hours
Examples
Schedule for 24x7

Schedule for Monday to Friday 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM
Remove Sunday and Saturday from the schedule.

The final schedule looks like this: 

Add lunch and other breaks
If your entire contact center were to close for lunch from 12-1, for example, then you'd enter hours to specify that, as in the following image:

In most contact centers breaks are staggered. While some agents are at lunch, for example, others are still available to handle contacts. Instead of specifying this in the hours of operation, you add custom agent statuses that appear in the agent's Contact Control Panel (CCP). 
For example, you might create a custom status named Lunch. When the agent goes to lunch, they change their status in the CCP from Available to Lunch. During this time, no contacts are routed to them. When they return from lunch and are ready to take contacts again, they change their status back to Available. 
Supervisors can change an agent's status using the real-time metrics report.
For more information, see these topics: 
 Add custom agent status
 About agent status
 Change the "Agent activity" status in a real-time metrics report 
What happens during daylight savings time
Amazon Connect uses the timezone to determine whether daylight savings time is in effect for the queues, and adjusts automatically. When a contact comes in, Amazon Connect looks at the hours and timezone to determine whether the contact can be routed to the given queue. 
Use the Check Hours of Operation block
At the start of your contact flows, use the Check hours of operation block to determine whether your contact center is open, and to branch accordingly. 