Set up queued callback
You can create contact flows that provide the ability for customers to leave their phone number and get a callback from an agent. 
Here's how queued callback works: 


When a customer leaves their number it's put in a queue and then routed to the next available agent.


After an agent accepts the callback in the CCP, Amazon Connect calls the customer.
    If no agents are available to work on callbacks, the callbacks stay in queue for up to 7 days after they are created. After that, they are automatically removed from the queue.


If there is no answer when the Amazon Connect calls the customer, it retries based on the number of times you've specified. If the call goes to voicemail, it's considered connected. 


Steps to set up queued callback
Use the steps provided in the following overview to set up queued callback. 
 Set up a contact queue  specifically for callbacks. In your real-time metrics reports, you can look at that queue and see how many customers are waiting for callbacks.
 Set up caller ID. When setting your callback queue, specify the caller ID name and phone number that appears to customers when you call back. 
 Add the callback queue to a routing profile. Set this up so that contacts waiting for a call are routed to agents. 
 Create a contact flow for queued callbacks. You offer the option for a callback to the customer. 
 Associate a phone number with the inbound contact flow. 
 (Optional) Create an outbound whisper flow. When a queued call is placed, the customer hears this message after they pick up and before they connect to the agent. For example, "Hello, this is your scheduled callback..."
 (Optional) Create an agent whisper flow. This is what the agent hears right after they accept the contact, before they are joined to the customer. For example, "You're about to be connected to Customer John, who requested a refund for..."
Create a contact flow for queued callbacks
To see what a flow looks like with queued callback, in new Amazon Connect instances see Sample queue configurations. In previous instances, see Sample queued callback.
The following procedure shows how to:
 Request a callback number from a customer.
 Store the callback number in an attribute.
 Reference the attribute in a Set callback number block to set the number to dial the customer.
 Transfer the customer to the callback queue.
At the basic level, here's what this queued callback flow looks like, without any of the alternative branches or error handling configured.

Following are the steps to create this flow.
To create a contact flow for queued callbacks


In Amazon Connect, choose Routing, Contact flows.


Select an existing contact flow, or choose Create contact flow to create a new one.
Tip
You can create this flow using different contact flow types: Customer queue flow, Transfer to agent, Transfer to queue. 


Add a Get customer input block.


Configure the block to prompt the customer for a callback: 



At the bottom of the block, choose Add another condition, and add options 1 and 2. 



Add a Store customer input block.


Configure the block to prompt customers for their callback number, such as “Please enter your phone number.”



In the Customer input section, select Phone number, and then choose one of the following: 
    Local format: Your customers are calling from phone numbers that are in the same country as the AWS Region where you created your Amazon Connect instance.
    International format/Enforce E.164: Your customers are calling from phone numbers in countries or regions other than the one where you created your instance.


Add a Set callback number block to your contact flow.


Configure the block to set Type to System. For Attribute, choose Store customer input. This attribute stores the customer's phone number.



Add a Transfer to queue block. 


In the Transfer to queue block, configure the Transfer to callback queue tab as shown in the following image: 



The following properties are available:
    Initial delay: Specify how much time has to pass between a callback contact being initiated in the contact flow, and the customer is put in queue for the next available agent. In the previous example, the time is 99 seconds.
    Maximum amount of attempts: Think of this as the maximum number of retries. If this is set to 2, then Amazon Connect tries to call back the customer a maximum of three times: the initial callback, and two retries. 
 A retry only happens if it rings but there's no answer\. If the callback goes to voicemail, it's considered connected and Amazon Connect does not retry again\.

Tip
We strongly recommend that you double-check the number entered in Maximum amount of attempts. If you accidentally enter a high number, such as 20, it's going to result in unnecessary work for the agent and too many calls for the customer.
    Minimum time between attempts: If the customer doesn't answer the phone, this is how long to wait until trying again. In the previous example, we wait 10 minutes between attempts.

In the Optional parameters section, choose Set working queue if you want to transfer the contact to a queue that you set up specifically for callbacks. 


Creating a queue just for callbacks lets you view in your real-time metrics reports how many customers are waiting for callbacks.
If you don't set a working queue, Amazon Connect uses the queue that was set previously in the flow.


To save and test this flow, configure the other branches and add error handling. To see an example of how this is done, see Sample queue configurations. For previous instances, see Sample queued callback. 


For information about how callbacks appear in real-time metrics reports and CTRs, see About queued callbacks in metrics. 


Learn more about queued callbacks
See the following topics to learn more about queued callbacks:
 About queued callbacks in metrics
 How Initial delay affects Scheduled and In queue metrics
 What counts as a "Failed Callback Attempt"
 Example: Metrics for a queued callback