Contact block: Transfer to queue
Contact flow types
You can use this block in the following contact flow types:
 Inbound contact flow
 Customer Queue flow
 Transfer to Agent flow
 Transfer to Queue flow
Description

In most types of contact flows, this block ends the current contact flow and places the customer in a queue. 
When used in a Customer Queue flow, however, this block transfers a contact already in a queue to another queue. 
When used in a callback scenario, Amazon Connect calls the agent first. After the agent accepts the call in the CCP, Amazon Connect calls the customer.

Properties
This block has two tabs on its properties page. 
Tab 1: Transfer to queue

When the Transfer to queue block runs, it checks the queue capacity to determine whether the queue is at capacity (full). This check for queue capacity compares the current number of contacts in the queue to the Maximum contacts in queue limit, if one is set for the queue. 
If no limit is set, the queue is limited to the number of concurrent contacts set in the service quota for the instance.
Tab 2: Transfer to callback queue

The following properties are available under the Transfer to callback queue tab:
 Initial delay: Specify how much time has to pass between a callback contact being initiated in the contact flow, and the customer is put in queue for the next available agent. 
 Maximum amount of attempts: Think of this as the maximum number of retries. If this were set to 1, then Amazon Connect would try to callback the customer at most two times: the initial callback, and 1 retry.
Tip
We strongly recommend that you double-check the number entered in Maximum amount of attempts. If you accidentally enter a high number, such as 20, it's going to result in unnecessary work for the agent and too many calls for the customer.
 Minimum time between attempts: If the customer doesn't answer the phone, this is how long to wait until trying again.
 Set working queue: You can transfer a callback queue to a different queue. This is useful if you set up a special queue just for callbacks. You can then view that queue to see how many customers are waiting for callbacks.
Tip
If you want to specify the Set working queue property, you need to add a Set customer callback number block before this block.
If you don't set a working queue, Amazon Connect uses the queue that was set previously in the flow.
Configuration tips

When you use this block in a Customer Queue flow, you must add a Loop prompts block before this one.
To use this block in most contact flows, you must add a Set working queue block first. The one exception to this rule is when this block is used in a Customer Queue flow. 
When you use text, either for text-to-speech or chat, you can use a maximum of 3,000 billed characters (6,000 total characters).
Amazon Lex bots support both spoken utterances and keypad input when used in a contact flow.
You can prompt contacts to end their input with a pound key # and to cancel it using the star key *. 

Configured block
When this block is configured to transfer to queue, it looks similar to the following image. If a contact is routed down the At capacity branch, it remains in the current working queue.

When this block is configured to transfer to callback queue, it looks similar to the following image. If a contact is routed down the Success branch, it’s transferred to the specified queue.

Scenarios
See these topics for scenarios that use this block:
 Manage contacts in a queue
 Set up queued callback
 About queued callbacks in metrics
Sample flows
See these sample flows for scenarios that use this block:
 Sample queue configurations
 Sample customer queue priority
 Sample queued callback