Update instance settings
To update the instance settings: 


Open the Amazon Connect console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/connect/.


On the instances page, choose the instance alias. The instance alias is also your instance name, which appears in your Amazon Connect URL. For example, in https://mytest88.awsapps.com/connect/home the instance name is mytest88.



Complete the following procedures.


Update telephony options


In the navigation pane, choose Telephony.


(Optional) To enable customers to call into your contact center, choose I want to handle incoming calls with Amazon Connect.


(Optional) To enable outbound calling from your contact center, choose I want to make outbound calls with Amazon Connect.


(Optional) By enabling early media audio, your agents can hear pre-connection audio such as busy signals, failure-to-connect errors, or other informational messages from telephony providers, when making outbound calls. Choose I want to enable early media.


Choose Save.


Update data storage


In the navigation pane, choose Data storage.


(Optional) To specify the bucket and KMS key for recordings of voice conversations, choose Call recordings, Edit, specify the bucket name and prefix, select the KMS key by name, and then choose Save. 


When this bucket is created, call recording is enabled at the instance level. The next step for setting up this functionality is to set up recording behavior in a contact flow.

(Optional) To specify the bucket and KMS key for recordings (transcripts) of chat conversations, choose Chat transcripts, Edit, specify the bucket name and prefix, select the KMS key by name, and then choose Save. 

When this bucket is created, chat transcripts are enabled at the instance level. Now all chat transcripts will be stored here.


(Optional) To enable live media streaming, choose Live media streaming, Edit. For more information, see Capture customer audio: live media streaming.


(Optional) To specify the bucket and KMS key for exported reports, choose Exported reports, Edit, specify the bucket name and prefix, select the KMS key by name, and then choose Save.


Update data streaming options


In the navigation pane, choose Data streaming.


Choose Enable data streaming. For more information, see Enable data streaming for your instance.


For Contact Trace Records, do one of the following:
    Choose Kinesis Firehose and select an existing delivery stream, or choose Create a new Kinesis firehose to open the Kinesis Firehose console and create the delivery stream.
    Choose Kinesis Stream and select an existing stream, or choose Create a new Kinesis firehose to open the Kinesis console and create the stream.


For Agent Events, select an existing Kinesis stream or choose Create a new Kinesis stream to open the Kinesis console and create the stream.


Choose Save.


Update contact flow settings


In the navigation pane, choose Contact flows.


(Optional) To add a signing key for use in contact flows, choose Add key. For more information, see Encrypt customer input.


(Optional) To integrate with Amazon Lex, select a Lex bot. For more information, see Add an Amazon Lex bot.


(Optional) To integrate with AWS Lambda, select a Lambda function. For more information, see Invoke AWS Lambda functions.


(Optional) To enable contact flow logs, choose Enable contact flow logs. For more information, see Track events as customers interact with contact flows.


(Optional) To use the best available voice from Amazon Polly, choose Use the best available voice . For more information, see Amazon Polly best sounding voice.

