
This guide is for the Snowball Edge. If you are looking for documentation for the Snowball, see the AWS Snowball User Guide.

What Is an AWS Snowball Edge?
The AWS Snowball Edge is a type of Snowball device with on-board storage and compute power for select AWS capabilities. Snowball Edge can undertake local processing and edge-computing workloads in addition to transferring data between your local environment and the AWS Cloud.
Each Snowball Edge device can transport data at speeds faster than the internet. This transport is done by shipping the data in the appliances through a regional carrier. The appliances are rugged shipping containers, complete with E Ink shipping labels. The AWS Snowball Edge device differs from the standard Snowball because it can bring the power of the AWS Cloud to your on-premises location, with local storage and compute functionality.
Snowball Edge devices have three options for device configurations – storage optimized, compute optimized, and with GPU. When this guide refers to Snowball Edge devices, it's referring to all options of the device. Whenever specific information applies only to one or more optional configurations of devices, like how the Snowball Edge with GPU has an on-board GPU, it will be called out. For more information, see Snowball Edge Device Options.
AWS Snowball Edge Features
Snowball Edge devices have the following features:
 Large amounts of storage capacity or compute functionality for devices, depending on the options you choose when you create your job.
 Network adapters with transfer speeds of up to 100 GB/second.
 Encryption is enforced, protecting your data at rest and in physical transit.
 You can import or export data between your local environments and Amazon S3, physically transporting the data with one or more devices, completely bypassing the internet.
 AWS Snowball Edge devices are their own rugged shipping containers, and the built-in E Ink display changes to show your shipping label when the device is ready to ship.
 Snowball Edge devices come with an on-board LCD display that can be used to manage network connections and get service status information.
 You can cluster Snowball Edge devices for local storage and compute jobs to achieve 99.999 percent data durability across 5–10 devices, and to locally grow and shrink storage on demand.
 You can use the file interface to read and write data to an AWS Snowball Edge device through a file share or Network File System (NFS) mount point.
 You can write Python-language Lambda functions and associate them with Amazon S3 buckets when you create an AWS Snowball Edge device job. Each function triggers whenever there's a local Amazon S3 PUT object action executed on the associated bucket on the appliance.
 Snowball Edge devices have Amazon S3 and Amazon EC2 compatible endpoints available, enabling programmatic use cases.
 Snowball Edge devices support the new sbe1, sbe-c, and sbe-g instance types, which you can use to run compute instances on the device using Amazon Machine Images (AMIs).
Prerequisites for Using Snowball Edge
Before creating your first job, keep the following in mind.
For jobs where you import data into Amazon S3, take these steps:
 Create an AWS account with AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) administrator-level permissions. For more information, see Setting Up Your AWS Access for AWS Snowball Edge.
 Confirm that the files and folders to transfer are named according to the object key naming guidelines for Amazon S3. Any files or folders with names that don't meet these guidelines aren't imported into Amazon S3.
 Plan what data you want to import into Amazon S3. For more information, see How to Transfer Petabytes of Data Efficiently.
Before exporting data from Amazon S3, take these steps:
 Understand what data is exported when you create your job. For more information, see Using Export Ranges.
 For any files with a colon (:) in the file name, change the file names in Amazon S3 before you create the export job to get these files. Files with a colon in the file name fail export to Microsoft Windows Server. 
For jobs using compute instances:
 Before you can add any AMIs to your job, you must have an AMI created in your AWS account of the supported image type. Currently, supported AMIs are based on the CentOS 7 (x86_64) - with Updates HVM, Ubuntu Server 14.04 LTS (HVM), and Ubuntu 16.04 LTS - Xenial (HVM) images. You can get these images from the AWS Marketplace.
 If you're going to SSH into the instances running on a Snowball Edge, you must already have the key pair for connecting to the instance.
 For information specific to using compute instances on a device, see Using Amazon EC2 Compute Instances.
Services Related to the AWS Snowball Edge
You can use AWS Snowball with an AWS Snowball Edge device with the following related AWS services:
 Amazon S3 – You can use the Amazon S3 Adapter for Snowball, which supports a subset of the Amazon S3 API actions, to transfer data onto an AWS Snowball Edge device. You can do this in a single AWS Snowball Edge device or in a cluster of devices for increased data durability. In addition, you can import data hosted on an AWS Snowball Edge device into Amazon S3 and your local environment through a shipped AWS Snowball Edge device. For more information on using Amazon S3, see the Amazon Simple Storage Service Getting Started Guide.
 Amazon EC2 – You can use the Amazon EC2 compatible endpoint, which supports a subset of the Amazon EC2 API actions, to run compute instances on a Snowball Edge device. For more information on using Amazon EC2 in AWS, see Amazon EC2 Getting Started Guide.
 AWS Lambda powered by AWS Greengrass – You can trigger Lambda functions based on Amazon S3 storage actions made on an AWS Snowball Edge device. These Lambda functions are associated with an AWS Snowball Edge device during job creation. For more information on using Lambda, see the AWS Lambda Developer Guide.
Note
Compute instances and AWS Lambda powered by AWS Greengrass are not supported in the Asia Pacific (Mumbai) AWS Region.
Service Access
You can either use the AWS Snowball Management Console or the job management API to create and manage jobs. For more information on the job management API, see Job Management API Reference for AWS Snowball.
Accessing an AWS Snowball Edge Device
After your Snowball Edge device or devices are onsite, you can access them through either the LCD display built into each device, the Amazon S3 and Amazon EC2 compatible endpoints, or through the available file interface. For more information, see Using an AWS Snowball Edge Device.
Pricing for the AWS Snowball Edge
For information about the pricing and fees associated with the service and its appliances, see AWS Snowball Edge Pricing.
Are You a First-Time AWS Snowball User?
If you are a first-time user of the AWS Snowball service with the AWS Snowball Edge device, we recommend that you read the following sections in order:


For information on the device types and options, see AWS Snowball Device Differences.


To learn more about the types of jobs, see Understanding AWS Snowball Edge Jobs.


For an end-to-end overview of how to use an AWS Snowball Edge device, see How AWS Snowball Works with the Snowball Edge.


When you're ready to get started, see Getting Started with an AWS Snowball Edge Device.


For information about using compute instances on a device, see Using Amazon EC2 Compute Instances.

