Customize an AWS CodeStar Dashboard
You can customize your project dashboard by adding, removing, and moving tiles. You can also customize the team wiki tile to show information about your project.
Topics
 Add, Remove, or Move Tiles on Your Dashboard
 Add a Project Extension to Your Dashboard
 Customize the Team Wiki Tile
Add, Remove, or Move Tiles on Your Dashboard
You can change the appearance of your project dashboard by adding, removing, or changing the order and position of tiles on your dashboard.
To change the appearance of your project dashboard:
 To add a tile, on the project dashboard, choose Add tile and choose the tile from the list. You can add only one of each type of tile.
 To remove a tile, on the project dashboard, choose the ellipsis (…) on the tile, and then choose Remove from dashboard.
 To change the position of a tile on the dashboard, drag it to the position where you want it to appear.
Add a Project Extension to Your Dashboard
AWS CodeStar includes extensions that add tiles and functionality to your dashboard. For example, you can configure the JIRA extension to add and configure a JIRA tile for your project dashboard. 
To add a project extension to your dashboard, on the navigation bar for your project, choose Extensions. Next to the extension you want to add, choose Show on dashboard.
To set up an extension that is displayed on your dashboard, choose the connect button or command on the extension, and then follow instructions to complete setup.
To remove an extension that is displayed on your dashboard:
 Choose the ellipsis (…) on the extension you want to remove, and then choose Remove from Dashboard.
 On the navigation bar for your project, choose Extensions. Next to the extension you want to remove, choose Hide from dashboard.
Customize the Team Wiki Tile
Each AWS CodeStar project includes a customizable team wiki tile. You can change the name and contents of this tile. You can use this customizable tile to share links to team resources or highlight code samples. Every project team member can view this tile, but only team members who are assigned a contributor or owner role can modify its contents. This tile supports both plain text and CommonMark content, with the following differences:
 You can highlight programming language syntax in code blocks. To do this, specify the language, followed by the code. For example, for JavaScript:
JavaScript
  var hello = function() {
    console.log("hello world");
  }
  
 Inline embedding of images is not supported.
Note
Do not use this tile to store confidential data.
To customize a team wiki tile in a project

Open the AWS CodeStar console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/codestar/.

Choose the project.


In the project dashboard, choose the ellipsis (…) for the project information tile, and then choose Edit. 


In Markdown Editor, in Title, enter a new tile name. In Markdown content, add plain text or CommonMark content. For example, you could add a link to your team project wiki or other content.


Choose Save.
For a step-by-step example, see Step 4: Customize the Team Wiki Tile and the Project Dashboard.