crowd-slider
A bar with a sliding knob that allows a worker to select a value from a range of values by moving the knob. The slider makes it a great choice for settings that reflect intensity levels, such as volume, brightness, or color saturation.
The following is an example of a survey template that uses the <crowd-slider> element. Copy the following code and save it in a file with the extenion .html. Open the file in any browser to preview and interact with this template. 
```




Provide a brief instruction here


Provide more detailed instructions here
Include additional information


Provide an example of a good answer here
Explain why it's a good answer


Provide an example of a bad answer here
Explain why it's a bad answer



What is your favorite color for a bird?



Check this box if you like birds



On a scale of 1-10, how much do you like birds?



Write a short essay describing your favorite bird



```
Attributes
The following attributes are supported by this element.
disabled
A Boolean switch that, if present, displays the slider as disabled.
editable
A Boolean switch that, if present, displays an up/down button that can be chosen to select the value.
Selecting the value via the up/down button is an alternative to selecting the value by moving the knob on the slider. The knob on the slider will move synchronously with the up/down button choices.
max
A number that specifies the maximum value on the slider.
min
A number that specifies the minimum value on the slider.
name
A string that is used to identify the answer submitted by the worker. This value will match a key in the JSON object that specifies the answer.
pin
A Boolean switch that, if present, displays the current value above the knob as the knob is moved.
required
A Boolean switch that, if present, requires the worker to provide input.
secondary-progress
When used with a crowd-slider-secondary-color CSS attribute, the progress bar is colored to the point represented by the secondary-progress. For example, if this was representing the progress on a streaming video, the value would represent where the viewer was in the video timeline. The secondary-progress value would represent the point on the timeline to which the video had buffered.
step
A number that specifies the difference between selectable values on the slider.
value
A preset that becomes the default if the worker does not provide input.
Element Hierarchy
This element has the following parent and child elements.
 Parent elements: crowd-form
 Child elements: none
See Also
For more information, see the following.
 Use Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth to Label Data
 Crowd HTML Elements Reference