crowd-instructions
An element that displays instructions on three tabbed pages, Summary, Detailed Instructions, and Examples, when the worker clicks on a link or button.
The following is an example of a Liquid template that used the <crowd-instructions> element. Copy the following code and save it in a file with the extenion .html. Open the file in any browser to preview and interact with this template. 
```




Given an image, write three words or short phrases that summarize its contents.


Imagine that you are describing an image to a friend or tagging it for a news website. Provide three specific words or short phrases that describe it.





Highway
Cars
Gas station





                These are not specific enough:
                
Trees
Outside
Daytime


Instructions: Given an image, write three words or short phrases that summarize its contents.
If someone were to see these three words or phrases, they should understand the subject and context of the image, as well as any important actions.
View the instructions for detailed instructions and examples.





```
Attributes
The following attributes are supported by this element.
link-text
The text to display for opening the instructions. The default is Click for instructions.
link-type
A string that specifies the type of trigger for the instructions. The possible values are "link" (default) and "button".
Element Hierarchy
This element has the following parent and child elements.
 Parent elements: crowd-form
 Child elements: none
Regions
The following regions are supported by this element.
detailed-instructions
Content that provides specific instructions for a task. This appears on the page of the "Detailed Instructions" tab.
negative-example
Content that provides examples of inadequate task completion. This appears on the page of the "Examples" tab. More than one example may be provided within this element.
positive-example
Content that provides examples of proper task completion. This appears on the page of the "Examples" tab.
short-summary
A brief statement that summarizes the task to be completed. This appears on the page of the "Summary" tab. More than one example may be provided within this element.
See Also
For more information, see the following.
 Use Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth to Label Data
 Crowd HTML Elements Reference