Launch an Amazon EC2 Client Instance
To interact with and manage your AWS CloudHSM cluster and HSM instances, you must be able to communicate with the elastic network interfaces of your HSMs. The easiest way to do this is to use an EC2 instance in the same VPC as your cluster. You can also use the following AWS resources to connect to your cluster: 
 Amazon VPC Peering
 AWS Direct Connect
 VPN Connections
The AWS CloudHSM documentation typically assumes that you are using an EC2 instance in the same VPC and Availability Zone (AZ) in which you create your cluster. 
To create an EC2 instance


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


On the EC2 Dashboard, choose Launch Instance.


Choose Select for an Amazon Machine Image (AMI). Choose a Linux AMI or a Windows Server AMI.


Choose an instance type and then choose Next: Configure Instance Details.


For Network, choose the VPC that you previously created for your cluster.


For Subnet, choose the public subnet that you created for the VPC.


For Auto-assign Public IP, choose Enable.


Choose Next: Add Storage and configure your storage.


Choose Next: Add Tags and add any name–value pairs that you want to associate with the instance. We recommend that you at least add a name. Choose Add Tag and type a name for the Key and up to 255 characters for the Value. 


Choose Next: Configure Security Group


For Assign a security group, choose Select an existing security group. 


Choose the default Amazon VPC security group from the list.


Choose Review and Launch.


On the Review Instance Launch page, choose Launch.

When prompted for a key pair, choose Create a new key pair, enter a name for the key pair, and then choose Download Key Pair. This is the only chance for you to save the private key file, so download it and store it in a safe place. You must provide the name of your key pair when you launch an instance. In addition, you must provide the corresponding private key each time that you connect to the instance. Then choose the key pair that you created when getting set up. 

Alternatively, you can use an existing key pair. Choose Choose an existing key pair, and then choose the desired key pair. 
Warning
Don't choose Proceed without a key pair. If you launch your instance without a key pair, you won't be able to connect to it.
When you are ready, select the acknowledgement check box, and then choose Launch Instances.
For more information about creating a Linux Amazon EC2 client, see Getting Started with Amazon EC2 Linux Instances. For information about connecting to the running client, see the following topics: 
 Connecting to Your Linux Instance Using SSH
 Connecting to Your Linux Instance from Windows Using PuTTY
The Amazon EC2 user guide contains detailed instructions for setting up and using your Amazon EC2 instances. The following list provides an overview of available documentation for Linux and Windows Amazon EC2 clients: 
 To create a Linux Amazon EC2 client, see Getting Started with Amazon EC2 Linux Instances.
For information about connecting to the running client, see the following topics:
   Connecting to your Linux Instance Using SSH
   Connecting to Your Linux Instance from Windows Using PuTTY
  To create a Windows Amazon EC2 client, see Getting Started with Amazon EC2 Windows Instances. For more information about connecting to your Windows client, see Connect to Your Windows Instance. 
Note
 Your EC2 instance can run all of the AWS CLI commands contained in this guide. If the AWS CLI is not installed, you can download it from AWS Command Line Interface. If you are using Windows, you can download and run a 64-bit or 32-bit Windows installer. If you are using Linux or macOS, you can install the CLI using pip. 