Step 4: Enable HTTPS Traffic and Verify the Certificate
After you configure your web server for SSL/TLS offload with AWS CloudHSM, add your web server instance to a security group that allows inbound HTTPS traffic. This allows clients, such as web browsers, to establish an HTTPS connection with your web server. Then make an HTTPS connection to your web server and verify that it's using the certificate that you configured for SSL/TLS offload with AWS CloudHSM.
Topics
 Enable Inbound HTTPS Connections
 Verify That HTTPS Uses the Certificate That You Configured
Enable Inbound HTTPS Connections
To connect to your web server from a client (such as a web browser), create a security group that allows inbound HTTPS connections. Specifically, it should allow inbound TCP connections on port 443. Assign this security group to your web server. 
To create a security group for HTTPS and assign it to your web server


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


Choose Security Groups in the navigation pane.


Choose Create Security Group.


For Create Security Group, do the following:


For Security group name, type a name for the security group that you are creating.


(Optional) Type a description of the security group that you are creating.


For VPC, choose the VPC that contains your web server Amazon EC2 instance.


Choose Add Rule.


For Type, choose HTTPS.


Choose Create.


In the navigation pane, choose Instances.


Select the check box next to your web server instance. Then choose Actions, Networking, and Change Security Groups.


Select the check box next to the security group that you created for HTTPS. Then choose Assign Security Groups.


Verify That HTTPS Uses the Certificate That You Configured
After you add the web server to a security group, you can verify that SSL/TLS offload with AWS CloudHSM is working. You can do this with a web browser or with a tool such as OpenSSL s_client.
To verify SSL/TLS offload with a web browser


Use a web browser to connect to your web server using the public DNS name or IP address of the server. Ensure that the URL in the address bar begins with https://. For example, https://ec2-52-14-212-67.us-east-2.compute.amazonaws.com/.
Tip
You can use a DNS service such as Amazon Route 53 to route your website's domain name (for example, https://www.example.com/) to your web server. For more information, see Routing Traffic to an Amazon EC2 Instance in the Amazon Route 53 Developer Guide or in the documentation for your DNS service.


Use your web browser to view the web server certificate. For more information, see the following:
    For Mozilla Firefox, see View a Certificate on the Mozilla Support website.
    For Google Chrome, see Understand Security Issues on the Google Tools for Web Developers website.


Other web browsers might have similar features that you can use to view the web server certificate.

Ensure that the SSL/TLS certificate is the one that you configured your web server to use.

To verify SSL/TLS offload with OpenSSL s_client

Run the following OpenSSL command to connect to your web server using HTTPS. Replace  with the public DNS name or IP address of your web server. 

openssl s_client -connect <server name>:443
Tip
You can use a DNS service such as Amazon Route 53 to route your website's domain name (for example, https://www.example.com/) to your web server. For more information, see Routing Traffic to an Amazon EC2 Instance in the Amazon Route 53 Developer Guide or in the documentation for your DNS service.

Ensure that the SSL/TLS certificate is the one that you configured your web server to use.

You now have a website that is secured with HTTPS. The private key for the web server is stored in an HSM in your AWS CloudHSM cluster. However, you have only one web server. To set up a second web server and a load balancer for higher availability, go to (Optional) Step 5: Add a Load Balancer with Elastic Load Balancing.