Security in AWS WAF Classic
Note
This is AWS WAF Classic documentation. You should only use this version if you created AWS WAF resources, like rules and web ACLs, in AWS WAF prior to November 2019, and you have not migrated them over to the latest version yet. To migrate your resources, see Migrating your AWS WAF Classic resources to AWS WAF .
For the latest version of AWS WAF, see AWS WAF. 
Cloud security at AWS is the highest priority. As an AWS customer, you benefit from a data center and network architecture that is built to meet the requirements of the most security-sensitive organizations.
Security is a shared responsibility between AWS and you. The shared responsibility model describes this as security of the cloud and security in the cloud:
 Security of the cloud – AWS is responsible for protecting the infrastructure that runs AWS services in the AWS Cloud. AWS also provides you with services that you can use securely. The effectiveness of our security is regularly tested and verified by third-party auditors as part of the AWS compliance programs. To learn about the compliance programs that apply to AWS WAF Classic, see AWS Services in Scope by Compliance Program.
 Security in the cloud – Your responsibility is determined by the AWS service that you use. You are also responsible for other factors including the sensitivity of your data, your organization’s requirements, and applicable laws and regulations. 
This documentation helps you understand how to apply the shared responsibility model when using AWS WAF Classic. The following topics show you how to configure AWS WAF Classic to meet your security and compliance objectives. You also learn how to use other AWS services that help you to monitor and secure your AWS WAF Classic resources. 
Topics
 Data protection in AWS WAF Classic
 Identity and access management in AWS WAF Classic
 Logging and monitoring in AWS WAF Classic
 Compliance validation for AWS WAF Classic
 Resilience in AWS WAF Classic
 Infrastructure security in AWS WAF Classic