Creating a web ACL
To create a web ACL


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the AWS WAF console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/wafv2/. 


Choose Web ACLs in the navigation pane, and then choose Create web ACL.


For Name, enter the name that you want to use to identify this web ACL. 
Note
You can't change the name after you create the web ACL.


(Optional) For Description - optional, enter a longer description for the web ACL if you want to. 


For CloudWatch metric name, change the default name if applicable. Follow the guidance on the console for valid characters. The name can't contain special characters, white space, or metric names reserved for AWS WAF, including "All" and "Default_Action."
Note
You can't change the CloudWatch metric name after you create the web ACL.


For Resource type, choose the category of AWS resource that you want to associate with this web ACL. For more information, see Associating or disassociating a Web ACL with an AWS resource.


For Region, if you've chosen a regional resource type, choose the Region where you want AWS WAF to store the web ACL. 


You only need to choose this option for regional resource types. For CloudFront distributions, the region is hard coded to the US East (N. Virginia) Region, us-east-1, for Global (CloudFront) applications.


(Optional) For Associated AWS resources - optional, choose Add AWS resources. In the dialog box, choose the resources that you want to associate, and then choose Add. AWS WAF returns you to the Describe web ACL and associated AWS resources page. 


Choose Next.


(Optional) If you want to add managed rule groups, on the Add rules and rule groups page, choose Add rules, and then choose Add managed rule groups. Do the following for each managed rule group that you want to add:


On the Add managed rule groups page, expand the listing for AWS managed rule groups or for the AWS Marketplace seller of your choice.


For the rule group that you want to add, turn on the Add to web ACL toggle in the Action column. 
If you want to set the action for all rules in the rule group to count only, turn on the Set rules action to count toggle. For information about this option, see Overriding the actions of an entire rule group.


Choose Add rules to finish adding managed rules and return to the Add rules and rule groups page.


(Optional) If you want to add your own rule group, on the Add rules and rule groups page, choose Add rules, and then choose Add my own rules and rule groups. Do the following for each rule group that you want to add:


On the Add my own rules and rule groups page, choose Rule group.


Choose your rule group from the list. If you want to override the rule actions for the group, turn on the Set rules action to count toggle. For information about this option, see Overriding the actions of an entire rule group.


(Optional) If you want to add your own rule, on the Add rules and rule groups page, choose Add rules, Add my own rules and rule groups, Rule builder, then Rule visual editor. 
Note
The console Rule visual editor supports one level of nesting. For example, you can use a single logical AND or OR statement and nest one level of other statements inside it, but you can't nest logical statements within logical statements. To manage more complex rule statements, use the Rule JSON editor. For information about all options for rules, see AWS WAF rules. 
This procedure covers the Rule visual editor. 


For Name, enter the name that you want to use to identify this rule. 


Enter your rule definition, according to your needs. You can combine rules inside logical AND and OR rule statements. The wizard guides you through the options for each rule, according to context. For information about your rules options, see AWS WAF rules. 


For Action, select the action you want the rule to take when it matches a web request. For information on your choices, see AWS WAF rule action and How AWS WAF processes a web ACL.


Choose Add rule.


Choose the default action for the web ACL. This is the action that AWS WAF takes when a web request doesn't match any of the rules in the web ACL. For more information, see Deciding on the default action for a Web ACL.


Choose Next.


In the Set rule priority page, select and move your rules and rule groups to the order that you want AWS WAF to process them. For more information, see How AWS WAF processes a web ACL. 


Choose Next.


In the Configure metrics page, deselect anything you don't want metrics for, and update names as needed. You can combine metrics from multiple sources by providing the same CloudWatch metric name. 


Choose Next.


In the Review and create web ACL page, check over your definitions. If you want to change any area, choose Edit for the area. This returns you to the page in the web ACL wizard. Make any changes, then choose Next through the pages until you come back to the Review and create web ACL page.


Choose Create web ACL. Your new web ACL is listed in the Web ACLs page.

