Managing site settings
Administrators can manage site-wide settings, such as choosing a preferred language for site content and email notifications, setting storage limits, and specifying recovery bin retention policy. Administrators can also change site security settings for public sharing, invites, and new users.
Preferred language settings
Specify the language to use for site content and email notifications.
To change language settings


Under My Account, choose Open admin control panel.


For Preferred Language Settings, choose your preferred language.


Hancom Online Editing and Office Online
Enable or disable Hancom Online Editing and Office Online settings from the Admin control panel. For more information, see Enabling collaborative editing.
Storage
Specify the amount of storage that new users receive.
To change storage settings


Under My Account, choose Open admin control panel.


For Storage, choose Change.


In the Storage Limit dialog box, choose whether to give new users unlimited or limited storage.


Choose Save Changes.


Changing the storage setting affects only users that are added after the setting is changed. It does not change the amount of storage allocated to existing users. To change the storage limit for an existing user, see Editing users.
IP allow list
Amazon WorkDocs site administrators can add IP Allow List settings to restrict site access to an allowed range of IP addresses. You can add up to 32 IP Allow List settings per site.
Note
The IP Allow List currently works for IPv4 addresses only. IP address denylisting is not currently supported.
To add an IP range to the *IP Allow List*


Under My Account, choose Open admin control panel.


For IP Allow List, choose Change.


For Enter CIDR value, enter the Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) block for the IP address ranges to allowlist, and choose Add.


To allow access from a single IP address, specify /32 as the CIDR prefix.


Choose Save Changes.


Users who connect to your site from the IP addresses on the IP Allow List are allowed access. Users who attempt to connect to your site from unauthorized IP addresses receive an unauthorized response.


Warning
If you enter a CIDR value that blocks you from using your current IP address to access the site, a warning message appears. If you choose to continue with the current CIDR value, you will be blocked from accessing the site with your current IP address. This action can only be reversed by contacting AWS Support.
Security – public share settings
In the Admin control panel, under Security, choose Who should be allowed to create publicly shareable links? to specify which users are allowed to send file view links to people outside of the organization. Choose from the following settings:
No public sharing
Users cannot send view links to anyone outside the organization.
All managed users can share publicly 
All users can send view links to anyone outside the organization. 
Only Power users can share publicly
Only Power users can send view links to people outside the organization. 
Security – invite settings
Choose from the following settings for Who should be allowed to join your WorkDocs site?.
Users can invite new people from anywhere by sharing files or folders with them
Users can invite new people from anywhere outside the organization by sharing files or folders with them.
Users can invite new people from a few specific domains by sharing files or folders with them
Users can invite new people from the specified domains by sharing files or folders with them. 
Security – external invites
Choose from the following settings for Who should be allowed to invite external users to your WorkDocs site?
Only administrators can invite new external users
Only administrators can invite external users to use Amazon WorkDocs.
All managed users can invite new external users
All users can invite new external users to use Amazon WorkDocs.
Only Power users can invite new external users
Only Power users can invite new external users to use Amazon WorkDocs.
Recovery bin retention
Files deleted by a user are stored in the user’s recycle bin for 30 days. Afterwards, the files are temporarily moved to a recovery bin for 60 days before they are permanently deleted. The recovery bin is visible only to administrators. By changing the site-wide data retention policy, site administrators can change the recovery bin retention period, up to a maximum of 365 days. Files are permanently deleted at the end of the retention period.
To change the recovery bin retention period


Under My Account, choose Open admin control panel.


Next to Recovery bin retention, choose Change.


Type the number of days to retain files in the recovery bin, and choose Save.
Note
The default retention period is 60 days. This can be changed to 0–365 days.


You can restore user files from the recovery bin before they are permanently deleted.
To restore a user's file


Under My Account, choose Open admin control panel.


Under Manage Users, choose the user's folder icon.


Under Recovery bin, select the file(s) to restore, then choose the Recover icon.


For Restore file, choose the location to which to restore the file, then choose Restore.


Manage user settings
You can manage settings for users, including changing user roles and inviting, enabling, or disabling users. For more information, see Inviting and managing Amazon WorkDocs users.
Deleting a site
Use the Amazon WorkDocs console to delete an Amazon WorkDocs site.
Warning
You lose all user information and files when you delete a site. Delete a site only if you are sure that this information is no longer needed.
To delete a site


Open the Amazon WorkDocs console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/zocalo/.


If necessary, from the navigation bar, choose the AWS Region that you need. For more information, see Regions and endpoints in the Amazon Web Services General Reference.


On the Manage Your WorkDocs Sites page, choose the site to delete. Choose Actions, then choose Delete WorkDocs Site.


In the Delete Selected WorkDocs Site dialog box, choose whether to delete the user directory at the same time.


Choose I also want to delete the user directory to delete the AWS Directory Service Simple AD or AD Connector for an on-premises Microsoft Active Directory. To delete the directory, it cannot have any other AWS applications enabled. For more information, see Deleting a Simple AD directory or Deleting an AD Connector directory in the AWS Directory Service Administration Guide.


Verify that you are deleting the proper site, type DELETE in the confirmation field, and choose Delete WorkDocs Site. 


The site is immediately deleted and is no longer available.
Note
If you didn't provide your own directory for Amazon WorkDocs, then we created one for you. When you delete the Amazon WorkDocs site, you are charged for the directory we created for you unless you delete the directory or use it for another AWS application. For pricing information, see Other Directory Types Pricing.