Sharing an Amazon EBS snapshot
By modifying the permissions of a snapshot, you can share it with the AWS accounts that you specify. Users that you have authorized can use the snapshots you share as the basis for creating their own EBS volumes, while your original snapshot remains unaffected.
If you choose, you can make your unencrypted snapshots available publicly to all AWS users. You can't make your encrypted snapshots available publicly. 
When you share an encrypted snapshot, you must also share the customer managed CMK used to encrypt the snapshot. You can apply cross-account permissions to a customer managed CMK either when it is created or at a later time.
Important
When you share a snapshot, you are giving others access to all of the data on the snapshot. Share snapshots only with people with whom you want to share all of your snapshot data.
Considerations
The following considerations apply to sharing snapshots:
 Snapshots are constrained to the Region in which they were created. To share a snapshot with another Region, copy the snapshot to that Region. For more information, see Copying an Amazon EBS snapshot.
 If your snapshot uses the longer resource ID format, you can only share it with another account that also supports longer IDs. For more information, see Resource IDs.
 AWS prevents you from sharing snapshots that were encrypted with your default CMK. Snapshots that you intend to share must instead be encrypted with a customer managed CMK. For more information, see Creating Keys in the AWS Key Management Service Developer Guide.
 Users of your shared CMK who are accessing encrypted snapshots must be granted permissions to perform the following actions on the key: kms:DescribeKey, kms:CreateGrant, GenerateDataKey, and kms:ReEncrypt. For more information, see Controlling Access to Customer Master Keys in the AWS Key Management Service Developer Guide.
Sharing an unencrypted snapshot using the console
To share a snapshot using the console


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


Choose Snapshots in the navigation pane.


Select the snapshot and then choose Actions, Modify Permissions.


Make the snapshot public or share it with specific AWS accounts as follows:
    To make the snapshot public, choose Public.
This option is not valid for encrypted snapshots or snapshots with an AWS Marketplace product code.
    To share the snapshot with one or more AWS accounts, choose Private, enter the AWS account ID (without hyphens) in AWS Account Number, and choose Add Permission. Repeat for any additional AWS accounts.


Choose Save.


To use an unencrypted snapshot that was privately shared with you


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


Choose Snapshots in the navigation pane.


Choose the Private Snapshots filter.


Locate the snapshot by ID or description. You can use this snapshot as you would any other; for example, you can create a volume from the snapshot or copy the snapshot to a different Region.


Sharing an encrypted snapshot using the console
To share an encrypted snapshot using the console


Open the AWS KMS console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/kms.


To change the AWS Region, use the Region selector in the upper-right corner of the page.


Choose Customer managed keys in the navigation pane.


In the Alias column, choose the alias (text link) of the customer managed key that you used to encrypt the snapshot. The key details open in a new page.


In the Key policy section, you see either the policy view or the default view. The policy view displays the key policy document. The default view displays sections for Key administrators, Key deletion, Key Use, and Other AWS accounts. The default view displays if you created the policy in the console and have not customized it. If the default view is not available, you'll need to manually edit the policy in the policy view. For more information, see Viewing a Key Policy (Console) in the AWS Key Management Service Developer Guide.


Use either the policy view or the default view, depending on which view you can access, to add one or more AWS account IDs to the policy, as follows:
    (Policy view) Choose Edit. Add one or more AWS account IDs to the following statements: "Allow use of the key" and "Allow attachment of persistent resources". Choose Save changes. In the following example, the AWS account ID 444455556666 is added to the policy.
 ```
 {
   "Sid": "Allow use of the key",
   "Effect": "Allow",
   "Principal": {"AWS": [
     "arn:aws:iam::111122223333:user/CMKUser",
     "arn:aws:iam::444455556666:root"
   ]},
   "Action": [
     "kms:Encrypt",
     "kms:Decrypt",
     "kms:ReEncrypt*",
     "kms:GenerateDataKey*",
     "kms:DescribeKey"
   ],
   "Resource": "*"
 },
 {
   "Sid": "Allow attachment of persistent resources",
   "Effect": "Allow",
   "Principal": {"AWS": [
     "arn:aws:iam::111122223333:user/CMKUser",
     "arn:aws:iam::444455556666:root"
   ]},
   "Action": [
     "kms:CreateGrant",
     "kms:ListGrants",
     "kms:RevokeGrant"
   ],
   "Resource": "*",
   "Condition": {"Bool": {"kms:GrantIsForAWSResource": true}}
 }
 ```


(Default view) Scroll down to Other AWS accounts. Choose Add other AWS accounts and enter the AWS account ID as prompted. To add another account, choose Add another AWS account and enter the AWS account ID. When you have added all AWS accounts, choose Save changes.



Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


Choose Snapshots in the navigation pane.


Select the snapshot and then choose Actions, Modify Permissions.


For each AWS account, enter the AWS account ID in AWS Account Number and choose Add Permission. When you have added all AWS accounts, choose Save.


To use an encrypted snapshot that was shared with you


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


Choose Snapshots in the navigation pane.


Choose the Private Snapshots filter. Optionally add the Encrypted filter.


Locate the snapshot by ID or description.


Select the snapshot and choose Actions, Copy.


(Optional) Select a destination Region.


The copy of the snapshot is encrypted by the key displayed in Master Key. By default, the selected key is your account's default CMK. To select a customer managed CMK, click inside the input box to see a list of available keys.


Choose Copy.


Sharing a snapshot using the command line
The permissions for a snapshot are specified using the createVolumePermission attribute of the snapshot. To make a snapshot public, set the group to all. To share a snapshot with a specific AWS account, set the user to the ID of the AWS account.
To modify snapshot permissions using the command line
Use one of the following commands:
 modify-snapshot-attribute (AWS CLI)
 Edit-EC2SnapshotAttribute (AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell)
To view snapshot permissions using the command line
Use one of the following commands:
 describe-snapshot-attribute (AWS CLI)
 Get-EC2SnapshotAttribute (AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell)
For more information about these command line interfaces, see Accessing Amazon EC2.
Determining the use of shared snapshots
You can use AWS CloudTrail to monitor whether a snapshot that you have shared with others is copied or used to create a volume. The following events are logged in CloudTrail:
 SharedSnapshotCopyInitiated — A shared snapshot is being copied.
 SharedSnapshotVolumeCreated — A shared snapshot is being used to create a volume.
For more information about using CloudTrail, see Logging Amazon EC2 and Amazon EBS API calls with AWS CloudTrail.