Sharing an AMI with specific AWS accounts
You can share an AMI with specific AWS accounts without making the AMI public. All you need is the AWS account IDs. You can only share AMIs that have unencrypted volumes and volumes that are encrypted with a customer managed CMK. If you share an AMI with encrypted volumes, you must also share any CMKs used to encrypt them. For more information, see Sharing an Amazon EBS snapshot. You cannot share an AMI that has volumes that are encrypted with a AWS managed CMK.
AMIs are a regional resource. Therefore, sharing an AMI makes it available in that Region. To make an AMI available in a different Region, copy the AMI to the Region and then share it. For more information, see Copying an AMI.
There is no limit to the number of AWS accounts with which an AMI can be shared. User-defined tags that you attach to a shared AMI are available only to your AWS account and not to the other accounts that the AMI is shared with.
Sharing an AMI (console)
To grant explicit launch permissions using the console


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


In the navigation pane, choose AMIs.


Select your AMI in the list, and then choose Actions, Modify Image Permissions.


Specify the AWS account number of the user with whom you want to share the AMI in the AWS Account Number field, then choose Add Permission.


To share this AMI with multiple users, repeat this step until you have added all the required users. 


To allow create volume permissions for snapshots, select  Add "create volume" permissions to the following associated snapshots when creating permissions.
Note
You do not need to share the Amazon EBS snapshots that an AMI references in order to share the AMI. Only the AMI itself needs to be shared; the system automatically provides the instance access to the referenced Amazon EBS snapshots for the launch. However, you do need to share any CMKs used to encrypt snapshots that the AMI references. For more information, see Sharing an Amazon EBS snapshot.


Choose Save when you are done.


(Optional) To view the AWS account IDs with which you have shared the AMI, select the AMI in the list, and choose the Permissions tab. To find AMIs that are shared with you, see Finding shared AMIs.


Sharing an AMI (AWS CLI)
Use the modify-image-attribute command (AWS CLI) to share an AMI as shown in the following examples.
To grant explicit launch permissions
The following command grants launch permissions for the specified AMI to the specified AWS account.
aws ec2 modify-image-attribute \
    --image-id ami-0abcdef1234567890 \
    --launch-permission "Add=[{UserId=123456789012}]"
The following command grants create volume permission for a snapshot.
aws ec2 modify-snapshot-attribute \
    --snapshot-id snap-1234567890abcdef0 \
    --attribute createVolumePermission \
    --operation-type add \
    --user-ids 123456789012
Note
You do not need to share the Amazon EBS snapshots that an AMI references in order to share the AMI. Only the AMI itself needs to be shared; the system automatically provides the instance access to the referenced Amazon EBS snapshots for the launch. However, you do need to share any CMKs used to encrypt snapshots that the AMI references. For more information, see Sharing an Amazon EBS snapshot.
To remove launch permissions for an account
The following command removes launch permissions for the specified AMI from the specified AWS account:
aws ec2 modify-image-attribute \
    --image-id ami-0abcdef1234567890 \
    --launch-permission "Remove=[{UserId=123456789012}]"
The following command removes create volume permission for a snapshot.
aws ec2 modify-snapshot-attribute \
    --snapshot-id snap-1234567890abcdef0 \
    --attribute createVolumePermission \
    --operation-type remove \
    --user-ids 123456789012
To remove all launch permissions
The following command removes all public and explicit launch permissions from the specified AMI. Note that the owner of the AMI always has launch permissions and is therefore unaffected by this command.
aws ec2 reset-image-attribute \
    --image-id ami-0abcdef1234567890 \
    --attribute launchPermission