Considerations and Limitations When Using Athena to Query Data Registered With Lake Formation
Consider the following when using Athena to query data registered in Lake Formation. For additional information, see Known Issues for AWS Lake Formation in the AWS Lake Formation Developer Guide.
Topics
 Column Metadata Visible To Users Without Data Permissions To Column In Some Circumstances
 Working With Lake Formation Permissions To Views
 Athena Query Results Location In Amazon S3 Not Registered With Lake Formation
 Use Athena Workgroups To Limit Access To Query History
 Cross-Account Data Catalog Access
 CSE-KMS Amazon S3 Registered With Lake Formation Cannot Be Queried in Athena
 Partitioned Data Locations Registered with Lake Formation Must Be In Table Sub-Directories
 Create Table As Select (CTAS) Queries Require Amazon S3 Write Permissions
Column Metadata Visible To Unauthorized Users In Some Circumstances With Avro and Custom SerDe
Lake Formation column-level authorization prevents users from accessing data in columns for which the user does not have Lake Formation permissions. However, in certain situations, users are able to access metadata describing all columns in the table, including the columns for which they do not have permissions to the data.
This occurs when column metadata is stored in table properties for tables using either the Avro storage format or using a custom Serializer/Deserializers (SerDe) in which table schema is defined in table properties along with the SerDe definition. When using Athena with Lake Formation, we recommend that you review the contents of table properties that you register with Lake Formation and, where possible, limit the information stored in table properties to prevent any sensitive metadata from being visible to users.
Working With Lake Formation Permissions To Views
For data registered with Lake Formation, an Athena user can create a VIEW only if they have Lake Formation permissions to the tables, columns, and source Amazon S3 data locations on which the VIEW is based. After a VIEW is created in Athena, Lake Formation permissions can be applied to the VIEW. Column-level permissions are not available for a VIEW. Users who have Lake Formation permissions to a VIEW but do not have permissions to the table and columns on which the view was based are not able to use the VIEW to query data. However, users with this mix of permissions are able to use statements like DESCRIBE VIEW, SHOW CREATE VIEW, and SHOW COLUMNS to see VIEW metadata. For this reason, be sure to align Lake Formation permissions for each VIEW with underlying table permissions.
Athena Query Results Location In Amazon S3 Not Registered With Lake Formation
The query results locations in Amazon S3 for Athena cannot be registered with Lake Formation. Lake Formation permissions do not limit access to these locations. Unless you limit access, Athena users can access query result files and metadata when they do not have Lake Formation permissions for the data. To avoid this, we recommend that you use workgroups to specify the location for query results and align workgroup membership with Lake Formation permissions. You can then use IAM permissions policies to limit access to query results locations. For more information about query results, see Working with Query Results, Output Files, and Query History.
Use Athena Workgroups To Limit Access To Query History
Athena query history exposes a list of saved queries and complete query strings. Unless you use workgroups to separate access to query histories, Athena users who are not authorized to query data in Lake Formation are able to view query strings run on that data, including column names, selection criteria, and so on. We recommend that you use workgroups to separate query histories, and align Athena workgroup membership with Lake Formation permissions to limit access. For more information, see Using Workgroups to Control Query Access and Costs.
Cross-Account Data Catalog Access
To access a data catalog in another account, you can use one of the following methods:
 Set up cross-account access in Lake Formation. 
 Use an Athena cross-account AWS Lambda function to federate queries to the Data Catalog of your choice.
Setting Up Cross-Account Access in Lake Formation
AWS Lake Formation lets you use a single account to manage a central Data Catalog. You can use this feature to implement cross-account access to Data Catalog metadata and underlying data. For example, an owner account can grant another (recipient) account SELECT permission on a table. For a shared database or table to appear in the Athena Query Editor, you create a resource link in Lake Formation to the shared database or table. When the recipient account in Lake Formation queries the owner's table, CloudTrail adds the data access event to the logs for both the recipient account and the owner account.
For more information, see the following resources in the AWS Lake Formation Developer Guide:
Cross-Account Access
How Resource Links Work in Lake Formation
Cross-Account CloudTrail Logging
Using an Athena Cross-Account Lambda Function
You can use Athena to connect to an external Hive metastore. The Hive metastore functionality uses a Lambda function to federate queries to the Data Catalog of your choice. This same functionality can proxy catalog queries to a Data Catalog in a different account.
For steps, see Cross-account AWS Glue Data Catalog access with Amazon Athena in the AWS Big Data Blog.
CSE-KMS Encrypted Amazon S3 Locations Registered With Lake Formation Cannot Be Queried in Athena
Amazon S3 data locations that are registered with Lake Formation and encrypted using client-side encryption (CSE) with AWS KMS customer-managed keys (CSE-KMS) cannot be queried using Athena. You still can use Athena to query CSE-KMS encrypted Amazon S3 data locations that are not registered with Lake Formation and use IAM policies to allow or deny access.
Partitioned Data Locations Registered with Lake Formation Must Be In Table Sub-Directories
Partitioned tables registered with Lake Formation must have partitioned data in directories that are sub-directories of the table in Amazon S3. For example, a table with the location s3://mydata/mytable and partitions s3://mydata/mytable/dt=2019-07-11, s3://mydata/mytable/dt=2019-07-12, and so on can be registered with Lake Formation and queried using Athena. On the other hand, a table with the location s3://mydata/mytable and partitions located in s3://mydata/dt=2019-07-11, s3://mydata/dt=2019-07-12, and so on, cannot be registered with Lake Formation. You can set up access for these tables using IAM permissions outside of Lake Formation to query them in Athena. For more information, see Partitioning Data.
Create Table As Select (CTAS) Queries Require Amazon S3 Write Permissions
Create Table As Statements (CTAS) require write access to the Amazon S3 location of tables. To run CTAS queries on data registered with Lake Formation, Athena users must have IAM permissions to write to the table Amazon S3 locations in addition to the appropriate Lake Formation permissions to read the data locations. For more information, see Creating a Table from Query Results (CTAS).