Creating an Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels Dataset
Datasets contain the images, labels, and bounding box information that is used to train and test an Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels model. Datasets are managed by Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels projects. You create the initial training dataset for a project during project creation. You can also add new and existing datasets to a project after the project is created. For example, you might create a dataset that is used to test a model. 
We recommend that you create separate datasets for different image categories. For example, if you have images of scenic views and images of dogs, you should create a dogs dataset and a scenic views dataset.
Image Import Locations
You can create a dataset using images from one of the following locations.
Amazon S3 Bucket
The images are imported from an Amazon S3 bucket. During dataset creation, you can choose to assign label names to images based on the name of the folder that contains the images. The folder(s) must be a child of the Amazon S3 folder path that you specify in S3 folder location during dataset creation. To create a dataset, see Creating a Dataset by Importing Images from an S3 Bucket.
For example, assume the following folder structure in an Amazon S3 bucket. If you specify the Amazon S3 folder location as S3-bucket/alexa-devices, the images in the folder echo are assigned the label echo. Similarly, images in the folder echo-dot are assigned the label echo-dot. The names of deeper child folders aren't used to label images. Instead, the appropriate child folder of the Amazon S3 folder location is used. For example, images in the folder white-echo-dots are assigned the label echo-dot. Images at the level of the S3 folder location (alexa-devices) don't have labels assigned to them.
Folders deeper in the folder structure can be used to label images by specifying a deeper S3 folder location. For example, If you specify S3-bucket/alexa-devices/echo-dot, Images in the folder white-echo-dot are labeled white-echo-dot. Images outside the specified s3 folder location, such as echo, aren't imported.
S3-bucket
└── alexa-devices
    ├── echo
    │   ├── echo-image-1.png
    │   └── echo-image-2.png
    │   ├── .
    │   └── .
    └── echo-dot
        ├── white-echo-dot
        │   ├── white-echo-dot-image-1.png
        │   ├── white-echo-dot-image-2.png
        │
        ├── echo-dot-image-1.png
        ├── echo-dot-image-2.png
        ├── .
        └── .
We recommend that you use the Amazon S3 bucket (Console Bucket) created for you by Amazon Rekognition when you first opened the console in the current AWS region. If the Amazon S3 bucket that you are using is different (external) to the Console Bucket, the console prompts you to set up appropriate permissions during dataset creation. For more information, see Step 5: Set Up Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels Console Permissions. 
Local Computer
The images are loaded directly from your computer. You can upload up to 30 images at a time. You need to add labels and bounding box information. For more information, see Getting Started with Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels.
Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth
With Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth, you can use workers from either Amazon Mechanical Turk, a vendor company that you choose, or an internal, private workforce along with machine learning to enable you to create a labeled set of images. Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels imports Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth manifest files from an Amazon S3 bucket that you specify.
The files you import are the images and a manifest file. The manifest file contains label and bounding box information for the images you import.
If your images and labels aren't in the format of an Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth manifest file, you can create a manifest file and use it to import your labeled images. For more information, see Manifest Files.
Existing Dataset
If you've previously created a dataset, you can copy the dataset contents to a new dataset.
Creating a Dataset by Importing Images from an S3 Bucket
The following procedure shows you how to create a dataset using images stored in the Console S3 bucket. The images are automatically labeled with the name of the folder in which they are stored. 
After you have imported your images, you can add more images, assign labels, and add bounding boxes from a dataset's gallery page. For more information, see Review Your Images.
You choose which datasets to use for training and testing when you start training. For more information, see Training an Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels Model. 
Upload your images to an Amazon Simple Storage Service bucket


Create a folder on your local file system. Use a folder name such as alexa-devices.


Within the folder you just created, create folders named after each label that you want to use. For example, echo and ech-dot. The folder structure should be similar to the following.


alexa-devices
   ├── echo
   │   ├── echo-image-1.png
   │   ├── echo-image-2.png
   │   ├── .
   │   └── .
   └── echo-dot
       ├── echo-dot-image-1.png
       ├── echo-dot-image-2.png
       ├── .
       └── .


Place the images that correspond to a label into the folder with the same label name.


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon S3 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/.


Add the folder you created in step 1 to the Amazon S3 bucket (Console Bucket) created for you by Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels during First Time Set Up. For more information, see Step 2: Create Your First Project.


Open the Amazon Rekognition console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/rekognition/.


Choose Use Custom Labels.


Choose Get started. 


In the left navigation pane, choose Projects.


In the Projects page, choose the project to which you want to add a dataset.


In the Datasets section of the project page, choose Create dataset. 



In the Create dataset details page, enter a name for your dataset.


Choose Import images from S3 bucket.


In S3 folder location, enter the S3 bucket location for the folder you used in step 5.


In Automatic labeling choose Automatically attach a label to my images based on the folder they're stored in.



Choose Submit. 


If you are training your model to detect objects in your images, add labeled bounding boxes to the images in your new dataset. For more information, see Drawing Bounding Boxes.

