Creating and Streaming from Interface VPC Endpoints
You can use an interface VPC endpoint in your AWS account to restrict all network traffic between your Amazon VPC and AppStream 2.0 to the Amazon network. After you create this endpoint, you configure your AppStream 2.0 stack or image builder to use it. 
Prerequisites
Before you set up interface VPC endpoints for AppStream 2.0, be aware of the following prerequisites:
 Internet connectivity is required to authenticate users and deliver the web assets that AppStream 2.0 requires to function. The streaming interface endpoint maintains the streaming traffic within your VPC. Streaming traffic includes pixel, USB, user input, audio, clipboard, file upload and download, and printer traffic. To allow this traffic, you must allow the domains listed in Allowed Domains.
 The network to which your users' devices are connected must be able to route traffic to the interface endpoint.
 The security groups that are associated with the interface endpoint must allow inbound access to port 443 (TCP) and ports 1400-1499 (TCP) from the IP address range from which your users connect.
 The network access control list for the subnets must allow outbound traffic from ephemeral network ports 1024-65535 (TCP) to the IP address range from which your users connect.
 You must have an IAM permissions policy in your AWS account that provides permissions to perform the ec2:DescribeVpcEndpoints API action. By default, this permission is defined in the IAM policy that is attached to the AmazonAppStreamServiceAccess role. If you have the required permissions, this service role is automatically created by AppStream 2.0, with the required IAM policies attached, when you get started with the AppStream 2.0 service in an AWS Region. For more information, see Identity and Access Management for Amazon AppStream 2.0.
To create an interface endpoint


Open the Amazon VPC console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/.


In the navigation pane, choose Endpoints, Create Endpoint.


Choose Create Endpoint.


For Service category, ensure that AWS services is selected. 


For Service Name*, choose **com.amazonaws.*.appstream.streaming.


Specify the following information. When you're done, choose Create endpoint. 
    For VPC, choose a VPC in which to create the interface endpoint. You can choose a different VPC than the VPC with AppStream 2.0 resources.
    For Subnets, choose the subnets (Availability Zones) in which to create the endpoint network interfaces. We recommend that you choose subnets in at least two Availability Zones.
    Ensure that the Enable Private DNS Name check box is selected. 
Note
If your users use a network proxy to access streaming instances, disable any proxy caching on the domain and DNS names that are associated with the private endpoint.
    For Security group, choose the security groups to associate with the endpoint network interfaces. 
Note
The security groups must provide inbound access to the ports from the IP address range from which your users connect.


While your interface endpoint is being created, the status of the endpoint in the console appears as Pending. After your endpoint is created, the status changes to Available. 
To update a stack to use the interface endpoint that you created for streaming sessions, perform the following steps.
To update a stack to use a new interface endpoint

Open the AppStream 2.0 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/appstream2.

Ensure that you open the console in the same AWS Region as the interface endpoint that you want to use.


In the navigation pane, choose Stacks, and then choose the stack that you want.


Choose the VPC Endpoints tab, and then choose Edit.


In the Edit VPC Endpoint dialog box, for Streaming Endpoint, choose the endpoint through which to stream traffic.


Choose Update.


Traffic for new streaming sessions will be routed through this endpoint. However, traffic for current streaming sessions continues to be routed through the previously specified endpoint.
Note
Users cannot stream using the internet endpoint when an interface endpoint is specified.