Troubleshooting Fleets
The following are possible issues that might occur when users connect to streaming sessions launched from fleet instances.
Topics
 My applications won't work correctly unless I use the Internet Explorer defaults. How do I restore the Internet Explorer default settings?
 I need to persist environment variables across my fleet instances.
 I want to change the default Internet Explorer home page for my users.
 When my users end a streaming session and then start a new one, they see a message that says no streaming resources are available.
My applications won't work correctly unless I use the Internet Explorer defaults. How do I restore the Internet Explorer default settings?
If your AppStream 2.0 environment includes applications that render elements, you might need to restore the Internet Explorer default settings to enable full enable access to the internet. 
To automatically restore the Internet Explorer default settings


Open the AppStream 2.0 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/appstream2.


In the left navigation pane, choose Images, Image Builder.


Choose the image builder on which to restore the Internet Explorer default settings, verify that it is in the Running state, and choose Connect.


Log in to the image builder by doing either of the following:
    If your image builder is not joined to an Active Directory domain, on the Local User tab, choose Template User.
    If your image builder is joined to an Active Directory domain, choose the Directory User tab, enter the credentials for a domain user who does not have local administrator permissions on the image builder, and then choose Log in.


Open Internet Explorer and reset your settings by doing the following:


In the upper right area of the Internet Explorer browser window, choose the Tools icon, then choose Internet options.


Choose the Advanced tab, and then choose Reset.


When prompted to confirm your choice, choose Reset again.


When the Reset Internet Explorer Settings message is displayed, choose Close.


In the upper right area of the image builder desktop, choose Admin Commands, Switch User. 



This disconnects your current session and opens the login menu. Do either of the following: 
    If your image builder is not joined to an Active Directory domain, on the Local User tab, choose Administrator.
    If your image builder is joined to an Active Directory domain, choose the Directory User tab, and log in as a domain user who has local administrator permissions on the image builder.


On the image builder desktop, open Image Assistant.


Follow the required steps in Image Assistant to finish creating your image. For more information, see Tutorial: Create a Custom AppStream 2.0 Image by Using the AppStream 2.0 Console.


I need to persist environment variables across my fleet instances.
Environment variables enable you to dynamically pass settings across applications. You can make user environment variables and system environment variables available across your fleet instances. You can also create environment variables with limited scope, which is useful when you need to use the same environment variable with different values across different applications. For more information, see Persist Environment Variables.
I want to change the default Internet Explorer home page for my users.
You can use Group Policy to set the default home page in Internet Explorer for your users. You can also enable users to change the default page that you set. For more information, see Change the Default Internet Explorer Home Page for Users' Streaming Sessions.
When my users end a streaming session and then start a new one, they see a message that says no streaming resources are available.
When a user ends a session, AppStream 2.0 terminates the underlying instance and creates a new instance if needed to meet the desired capacity of the fleet. If a user tries to start a new session before AppStream 2.0 creates the new instance and all other instances are in use, the user will receive an error stating that no streaming resources are available. If your users start and stop sessions frequently, consider increasing your fleet capacity. For more information, see Fleet Auto Scaling for Amazon AppStream 2.0. Or, consider increasing the maximum session duration for your fleet and instructing your users to close their browser during periods of inactivity rather than ending their session.