Troubleshooting Notification Codes
The following are notification codes and resolution steps for notifications that you might see when you set up and use Amazon AppStream 2.0. These notifications can be found in the Notifications tab in the AppStream 2.0 console, after selecting an image builder or fleet. You can also get fleet notifications by using the AppStream 2.0 API operation DescribeFleets or the describe-fleets CLI command.
Active Directory Internal Service
Follow these steps if you receive an internal service error when you set up and use Active Directory with Amazon AppStream 2.0. 
INTERNAL_SERVICE_ERROR
Message: The user name or password is incorrect.
Resolution: This error might occur when the computer object that was created in the Microsoft Active Directory domain for the resource was deleted or disabled. You can resolve this error by enabling the computer object in the Active Directory domain, and then starting the resource again. You might also need to reset the computer object account in the Active Directory domain. If you continue to encounter this error, contact AWS Support. For more information, see AWS Support Center.
Active Directory Domain Join
The following are notification codes and resolution steps for issues with domain join that you might encounter when you set up and use Active Directory with Amazon AppStream 2.0. 
DOMAIN_JOIN_ERROR_ACCESS_DENIED
Message: Access is denied.
Resolution: The service account specified in the directory configuration does not have permissions to create the computer object or reuse an existing one. Validate the permissions and start the image builder or fleet. For more information, see Granting Permissions to Create and Manage Active Directory Computer Objects.
DOMAIN_JOIN_ERROR_LOGON_FAILURE
Message: The username or password is incorrect.
Resolution: The service account specified in the directory configuration has an invalid username or password. Update the configuration and re-create the image builder or fleet that had the error.
DOMAIN_JOIN_NERR_PASSWORD_EXPIRED
Message: The password of this user has expired.
Resolution: The password for the service account specified in the AppStream 2.0 directory configuration has expired. Change the password for the service account in your Active Directory domain, update the configuration, and then re-create the image builder or fleet that had the error.
DOMAIN_JOIN_ERROR_DS_MACHINE_ACCOUNT_QUOTA_EXCEEDED
Message: Your computer could not be joined to the domain. You have exceeded the maximum number of computer accounts you are allowed to create in this domain. Contact your system administrator to have this limit reset or increased.
Resolution: The service account specified on the directory configuration does not have permissions to create the computer object or reuse an existing one. Validate the permissions and start the image builder or fleet. For more information, see Granting Permissions to Create and Manage Active Directory Computer Objects.
DOMAIN_JOIN_ERROR_INVALID_PARAMETER
Message: A parameter is incorrect. This error is returned if the LpName parameter is NULL or the NameType parameter is specified as NetSetupUnknown or an unknown nametype.
Resolution: This error can occur when the distinguished name for the OU is incorrect. Validate the OU and try again. If you continue to encounter this error, contact AWS Support. For more information, see AWS Support Center.
DOMAIN_JOIN_ERROR_MORE_DATA
Message: More data is available.
Resolution: This error can occur when the distinguished name for the OU is incorrect. Validate the OU and try again. If you continue to encounter this error, contact AWS Support. For more information, see AWS Support Center.
DOMAIN_JOIN_ERROR_NO_SUCH_DOMAIN
Message: The specified domain either does not exist or could not be contacted.
Resolution: The streaming instance was unable to contact your Active Directory domain. To ensure network connectivity, confirm your VPC, subnet, and security group settings. For more information, see My AppStream 2.0 streaming instances aren't joining the Active Directory domain.
DOMAIN_JOIN_NERR_WORKSTATION_NOT_STARTED
Message: The Workstation service has not been started.
Resolution: An error occurred starting the Workstation service. Ensure that the service is enabled in your image. If you continue to encounter this error, contact AWS Support. For more information, see AWS Support Center.
DOMAIN_JOIN_ERROR_NOT_SUPPORTED
Message: The request is not supported. This error is returned if a remote computer was specified in the lpServer parameter and this call is not supported on the remote computer.
Resolution: Contact AWS Support for assistance. For more information, see AWS Support Center.
DOMAIN_JOIN_ERROR_FILE_NOT_FOUND
Message: The system cannot find the file specified.
Resolution: This error occurs when an invalid organizational unit (OU) distinguished name is provided. The distinguished name must start with OU=. Validate the OU distinguished name and try again. For more information, see Finding the Organizational Unit Distinguished Name.
DOMAIN_JOIN_INTERNAL_SERVICE_ERROR
Message: The account already exists.
Resolution: This error can occur in either of the following scenarios:
 The service account specified in the directory configuration does not have permissions to create the computer object or reuse an existing one. If this is the case, validate the permissions and start the image builder or fleet. For more information, see Granting Permissions to Create and Manage Active Directory Computer Objects.
 After AppStream 2.0 creates the computer object, it is moved from the OU in which it was created. In this case, the first image builder or fleet is created successfully, but any new image builder or fleet that uses the computer object fails. When Active Directory searches for the computer object in the specified OU and detects that an object with the same name exists elsewhere in the domain, the domain join is not successful. 