Update an AppStream 2.0 Fleet with a New Image
When you create a new Amazon AppStream image, you must update your fleets to make the applications and data on the new image available to users. If your update is minor (for example, patching applications or the operating system), you can update your running fleet. When new streaming instances are created, they are created from the updated image. Changing the image on a running fleet does not disrupt users who have active streaming sessions. Unused streaming instances are replaced periodically, while streaming instances that users are connected to are terminated after the streaming sessions are finished. 
You can update a fleet with a new image that runs the same operating system when the fleet is in a Running or Stopped state. However, you can update a fleet with a new image that runs a different operating system only when the fleet is in a Stopped state.
Note
The application catalog that AppStream 2.0 displays to users is based on the current image that is associated with the fleet. If the updated image contains applications that are not specified in the older image, the applications may not launch if the user streams from an instance that is based on the older image.
To update an AppStream 2.0 fleet with a new image
To apply operating system updates or make new applications available to users, create a new image that has these changes. Then, update the fleet with the new image. 


Open the AppStream 2.0 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/appstream2.


In the left navigation pane, choose Images, Image Builder.


Choose the image builder to use, verify that it is in the Running state, and choose Connect. 


Log in to the image builder by doing either of the following:
    If your image builder is not joined to an Active Directory domain, on the Local User tab, choose Administrator.
    If your image builder is joined to an Active Directory domain, choose the Directory User tab, type the credentials for a domain user account that has local administrator permissions on the image builder, then choose Log in. 


Do either or both of the following as required: 
    Install updates to the operating system.
    Install applications.
If an application requires the Windows operating system to restart, let it do so. Before the operating system restarts, you are disconnected from your image builder. After the restart is complete, connect to the image builder again, then finish installing the application.


On the image builder desktop, open Image Assistant. 


Follow the necessary steps in Image Assistant to finish creating your image. For more information, see Tutorial: Create a Custom AppStream 2.0 Image by Using the AppStream 2.0 Console.


After the image status changes to Available, you can update the fleet with your new image.


In the left navigation pane, choose Fleets.


Select the fleet that you want to update with the new image. 


On the Fleet Details tab, choose Edit.


In the Edit Fleet dialog box, the list of available images displays in the Name list. Select the new image from the list. 


Choose Update.

