Working With Amazon EMR-Managed Security Groups
Different managed security groups are associated with the master instance and with the core and task instances in a cluster. An additional managed security group for service access is required when you create a cluster in a private subnet. For more information about the role of managed security groups with respect to your network configuration, see Amazon VPC Options.
When you specify managed security groups for a cluster, you must use the same type of security group, default or custom, for all managed security groups. For example, you can't specify a custom security group for the master instance, and then not specify a custom security group for core and task instances.
If you use default managed security groups, you don't need to specify them when you create a cluster. Amazon EMR automatically uses the defaults. Moreover, if the defaults don't exist in the cluster's VPC yet, Amazon EMR creates them. Amazon EMR also creates them if you explicitly specify them and they don't exist yet.
You can edit rules in managed security groups after clusters are created. When you create a new cluster, Amazon EMR checks the rules in the managed security groups that you specify, and then creates any missing rules that the new cluster needs in addition to rules that may have been added earlier. Unless specifically stated otherwise, each rule for default EMR-managed security groups is also added to custom EMR-managed security groups that you specify.
The default managed security groups are as follows:
 ElasticMapReduce-master
For rules in this security group, see Amazon EMR-Managed Security Group for the Master Instance (Public Subnets).
 ElasticMapReduce-slave
For rules in this security group, see Amazon EMR-Managed Security Group for Core and Task Instances (Public Subnets).
 ElasticMapReduce-Master-Private
For rules in this security group, see Amazon EMR-Managed Security Group for the Master Instance (Private Subnets).
 ElasticMapReduce-Slave-Private
For rules in this security group, see Amazon EMR-Managed Security Group for Core and Task Instances (Private Subnets).
 ElasticMapReduce-ServiceAccess
For rules in this security group, see Amazon EMR-Managed Security Group for Service Access (Private Subnets).
Amazon EMR-Managed Security Group for the Master Instance (Public Subnets)
The default managed security group for the master instance in public subnets has the Group Name of ElasticMapReduce-master. The default managed security group has the following rules, and Amazon EMR adds the same rules if you specify a custom managed security group. 
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]
To remove the inbound rule that allows public access using SSH for the ElasticMapReduce-master security group
The following procedure assumes that the ElasticMapReduce-master security group has not been edited previously. In addition, to edit security groups, you must be logged in to AWS as a root user or as an IAM principal that is allowed to manage security groups for the VPC that the cluster is in. For more information, see Changing Permissions for an IAM User and the Example Policy that allows managing EC2 security groups in the IAM User Guide.


Open the Amazon EMR console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/elasticmapreduce/.


Choose Clusters.


Choose the Name of the cluster.


Under Security and access choose the Security groups for Master link.



Choose ElasticMapReduce-master from the list.


Choose Inbound, Edit.


Find the rule with the following settings and choose the x icon to delete it:
    Type
SSH
    Port
22
    Source
Custom 0.0.0.0/0


Scroll to the bottom of the list of rules and choose Add Rule.


For Type, select SSH.


This automatically enters TCP for Protocol and 22 for Port Range.

For source, select My IP.

This automatically adds the IP address of your client computer as the source address. Alternatively, you can add a range of Custom trusted client IP addresses and choose Add rule to create additional rules for other clients. In many network environments, IP addresses are allocated dynamically, so you may need to periodically edit security group rules to update the IP address of trusted clients.


Choose Save.


Optionally, choose ElasticMapReduce-slave from the list and repeat the steps above to allow SSH client access to core and task nodes from trusted clients.


Amazon EMR-Managed Security Group for Core and Task Instances (Public Subnets)
The default managed security group for core and task instances in public subnets has the Group Name of ElasticMapReduce-slave. The default managed security group has the following rules, and Amazon EMR adds the same rules if you specify a custom managed security group.
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]
Amazon EMR-Managed Security Group for the Master Instance (Private Subnets)
The default managed security group for the master instance in private subnets has the Group Name of ElasticMapReduce-Master-Private. The default managed security group has the following rules, and Amazon EMR adds the same rules if you specify a custom managed security group.
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]
Amazon EMR-Managed Security Group for Core and Task Instances (Private Subnets)
The default managed security group for core and task instances in private subnets has the Group Name of ElasticMapReduce-Slave-Private. The default managed security group has the following rules, and Amazon EMR adds the same rules if you specify a custom managed security group.
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]
Amazon EMR-Managed Security Group for Service Access (Private Subnets)
The default managed security group for service access in private subnets has the Group Name of ElasticMapReduce-ServiceAccess. It has no inbound rules, and outbound rules that allow traffic over HTTPS (port 8443) to the other managed security groups in private subnets. These rules allow the cluster manager to communicate with the master node and with core and task nodes. The same rules are added if you specify a custom security group.