Instance Type Not Supported
If you create a cluster, and it fails with the error message "The requested instance type InstanceType is not supported in the requested Availability Zone," it means that you created the cluster and specified an instance type for one or more instance groups that is not supported by Amazon EMR in the Region and Availability Zone where the cluster was created. Amazon EMR may support an instance type in one Availability Zone within a Region and not another. The subnet you select for a cluster determines the Availability Zone within the Region.
Solutions
When you create a cluster using the Amazon EMR console, the list of instances is limited automatically to available instance types, so this error most often occurs when you create a cluster programmatically using the AWS CLI or Amazon EMR API.
A consolidated list of supported Amazon EMR instance types by Region and Availability Zone is not yet available, so the first step for any solution is to determine whether the instance type you want is available in the Availability Zone you want.
To determine available instance types in an Availability Zone using the Amazon EMR management console


Open the Amazon EMR console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/elasticmapreduce/.


Choose Create cluster, Go to advanced options.


Choose Next to view Hardware Configuration options.


Choose the Network and EC2 Subnet for the cluster.


Under Instance type, choose the pencil icon next to the default instance type for any of the Master, Core, or Task Node types.


A list of instance types available in the Region and Availability Zone associated with the EC2 Subnet that you selected is shown.


You can continue creating the cluster, or choose Cancel, choose a different Network and EC2 Subnet, and repeat the previous steps.


To determine available instance types in an Availability Zone using the AWS CLI
 Use the ec2 run-instances command with the --dry-run option. In the example below, replace m5.xlarge with the instance type you want to use, ami-035be7bafff33b6b6 with the AMI associated with that instance type, and subnet-12ab3c45 with a subnet in the Availability Zone you want to query.
aws ec2 run-instances --instance-type m5.xlarge --dry-run --image-id ami-035be7bafff33b6b6 --subnet-id subnet-12ab3c45
After you determine the instance types available, you can do any of the following:
 Create the cluster in the same Region and EC2 Subnet, and choose a different instance type with similar capabilities as your initial choice. For a list of supported instance types, see Supported Instance Types. To compare capabilities of EC2 instance types, see Amazon EC2 Instance Types.
 Choose a subnet for the cluster in an Availability Zone where the instance type is available and supported by Amazon EMR. 