Create a Notebook Instance with an Associated Git Repository
You can associate Git repositories with a notebook instance when you create the notebook instance by using the AWS Management Console, or the AWS CLI. If you want to use a CodeCommit repository that is in a different AWS account than the notebook instance, set up cross-account access for the repository. For information, see Associate a CodeCommit Repository in a Different AWS Account with a Notebook Instance.
Topics
 Create a Notebook Instance with an Associated Git Repository (Console)
 Create a Notebook Instance with an Associated Git Repository (CLI)
Create a Notebook Instance with an Associated Git Repository (Console)
To create a notebook instance and associate Git repositories in the Amazon SageMaker console


Follow the instructions at Step 2: Create an Amazon SageMaker Notebook Instance.


For Git repositories, choose Git repositories to associate with the notebook instance.


For Default repository, choose a repository that you want to use as your default repository. SageMaker clones this repository as a subdirectory in the Jupyter startup directory at /home/ec2-user/SageMaker. When you open your notebook instance, it opens in this repository. To choose a repository that is stored as a resource in your account, choose its name from the list. To add a new repository as a resource in your account, choose Add a repository to SageMaker (opens the Add repository flow in a new window) and then follow the instructions at Create a Notebook Instance with an Associated Git Repository (Console). To clone a public repository that is not stored in your account, choose Clone a public Git repository to this notebook instance only, and then specify the URL for that repository.


For Additional repository 1, choose a repository that you want to add as an additional directory. SageMaker clones this repository as a subdirectory in the Jupyter startup directory at /home/ec2-user/SageMaker. To choose a repository that is stored as a resource in your account, choose its name from the list. To add a new repository as a resource in your account, choose Add a repository to SageMaker (opens the Add repository flow in a new window) and then follow the instructions at Create a Notebook Instance with an Associated Git Repository (Console). To clone a repository that is not stored in your account, choose Clone a public Git repository to this notebook instance only, and then specify the URL for that repository.
Repeat this step up to three times to add up to three additional repositories to your notebook instance.

