Use the Amazon SageMaker Studio Notebook Toolbar
Amazon SageMaker Studio notebooks extend the JupyterLab interface. For an overview of the basic JupyterLab interface, see The JupyterLab Interface.
The following image shows the toolbar and an empty cell from a SageMaker Studio notebook.

When you pause on a toolbar icon, a tooltip displays the icon function. Additional notebook commands are found in the Studio main menu. For a list of available notebook commands and shortcuts, in the left sidebar of Studio, choose the Commands icon ( ), and then scroll to the NOTEBOOK CELL OPERATIONS and NOTEBOOK OPERATIONS sections. The toolbar includes the following icons:



Icon
Description





Save and checkpoint Saves the notebook and updates the checkpoint file. For more information, see Get the Difference Between the Last Checkpoint.



Insert cell Inserts a code cell below the current cell. The current cell is noted by the blue vertical marker in the left margin.



Cut, copy, and paste cells Cuts, copies, and pastes the selected cells.



Run cells Runs the selected cells and then makes the cell that follows the last selected cell the new selected cell.



Interrupt kernel Interrupts the kernel, which cancels the currently running operation. The kernel remains active.



Restart kernel Restarts the kernel. Variables are reset. Unsaved information is not affected.



Cell type Displays or changes the current cell type. The cell types are: [See the AWS documentation website for more details]



Launch terminal Launches a terminal in the SageMaker image hosting the notebook. For an example, see Get App Metadata.



Checkpoint diff Opens a new tab that displays the difference between the notebook and the checkpoint file. For more information, see Get the Difference Between the Last Checkpoint.



Git diff Only enabled if the notebook is opened from a Git repository. Opens a new tab that displays the difference between the notebook and the last Git commit. For more information, see Get the Difference Between the Last Commit.


2 vCPU  4 GiB
Instance type Displays or changes the instance type the notebook runs in. The format is as follows: number of vCPUs  amount of memory  number of GPUs Unknown indicates the notebook was opened without specifying a kernel. The notebook runs on the SageMaker Studio instance and doesn't accrue runtime charges. You can't assign the notebook to an instance type. You must specify a kernel and then Studio assigns the notebook to a default type. For more information, see Create or Open an Amazon SageMaker Studio Notebook and Change an Instance Type.


Python 3 (Data Science)
Kernel and SageMaker Image Displays or changes the kernel that processes the cells in the notebook. The format is as follows: Kernel (SageMaker Image) No Kernel indicates the notebook was opened without specifying a kernel. You can edit the notebook but you can't run any cells. For more information, see Change an Amazon SageMaker Image.



Kernel busy status Displays the busy status of the kernel. When the edge of the circle and its interior are the same color, the kernel is busy. The kernel is busy when it is starting and when it is processing cells. Additional kernel states are displayed in the status bar at the bottom-left corner of SageMaker Studio.



Share notebook Shares the notebook. For more information, see Share and Use a Amazon SageMaker Studio Notebook.



To select multiple cells, click in the left margin outside of a cell. Hold down the Shift key and use K or the Up key to select previous cells, or use J or the Down key to select following cells.