Add category rules to Contact Lens
You can set up Contact Lens to analyze conversations for certain words or phrases, and then highlight where they are uttered in the conversation. This is useful to do when, for example, you want to ensure that agents are speaking certain words or phrases for compliance reasons. Or, for example, you want to investigate when customers use certain words and have a negative sentiment. 

Security profile permissions for Contact Lens category rules
To view, edit, or add category rules, you must be assigned to a security profile that has Rules for Contact Lens permissions. For more information, see Security profile permissions for Contact Lens.
How to add category rules


Log in to Amazon Connect with a user account that is assigned the CallCenterManager security profile, or that is enabled for the Rules for Contact Lens permission.


In Amazon Connect choose Metrics and quality, Rules.


Assign a name to the rule.



Enter the words or phrases, separated by a comma, that you want to highlight.



Choose Add. Each word or phrase separated by a comma gets its own line.



The logic that Contact Lens uses to read these words or phrases is: (Hello) OR (thank OR your OR for OR calling OR Example OR Corp) OR (we OR value OR your OR business), etc.

To add more words or phrases, choose Add group of words or phrases. In the following image, the first group of words or phrases are what the agent might utter, and the second group is what the customer might utter.


The logic that Contact Lens uses to read the two groups of words or phrases is (group 1) AND (group 2).


When done, choose Save. 


After you add the rules, they are applied in real time to new contacts when Contact Lens analyzes conversations. You can't analyze past, stored conversations.


Tips for adding rules
Following are some tips for adding rules:
 It's an exact word match, singular or plural.
 AND OR are allowed.
 To enter a script, enter phrases. For example, if you want to highlight when agents say Thank you for being a member. We appreciate your business, enter two phrases: 
   Thank you for being a member.
   We appreciate your business.
Category rules are applied to new contacts
After you add the rules, they are applied in real time to new contacts when Contact Lens analyzes conversations. You can't analyze past stored conversations.