Contact block definitions
You create contact flows in the contact flow designer using contact blocks. Drag and drop contact blocks onto a canvas to arrange a contact flow. 
The following table lists all available contact blocks that you can use. Choose the links in the Block column for more information. 



Block
Description




Call phone number
Initiates an outbound call from an outbound whisper flow.


Change routing priority / age
Changes the priority of the contact in queue. You may want to do this, for example, based on the contact's issue or other variable.


Check contact attributes
Checks the values of contact attributes.


Check hours of operation
Checks whether the contact is occurring within or outside of the hours of operation defined for the queue.


Check queue status
Checks the status of the queue based on specified conditions.


Check staffing
Checks the current working queue, or queue you specify in the block, for whether agents are available, staffed, or online. Staffed availability could be on call, or after contact work status.


Disconnect / hang up
Terminates a customer contact.


Distribute by percentage
Routes customers randomly based on a percentage.


End flow / Resume
Ends the current flow without disconnecting the contact.


Get customer input
Branches based on customer intent.


Get queue metrics
Retrieves real-time metrics about queues and agents in your contact center and returns them as attributes.


Hold customer or agent
Places a customer or agent on or off hold.


Invoke AWS Lambda function
Calls AWS Lambda, optionally returns key-value pairs.


Loop
Loops through, or repeats, the Looping branch for the number of loops specified.


Loop prompts
Loops a sequence of prompts while a customer or agent is on hold or in queue.


Play prompt
Plays an interruptible audio prompt, delivers a text-to-speech message, or delivers a chat response.


Set callback number
Sets a callback number.


Set contact attributes
Stores key-value pairs as contact attributes.


Set customer queue flow
Specifies the flow to invoke when a customer is transferred to a queue.


Set disconnect flow
Sets the flow to run when the agent disconnects from the chat.


Set hold flow
Links from one contact flow type to another.


Set recording and analytics behavior 
Sets options for recording conversations.


Set voice
Sets the text-to-speech (TTS) language and voice to be used in the contact flow.


Set whisper flow
Overrides the default whisper by linking to a whisper flow.


Set working queue
Specifies the queue to be used when Transfer to queue is invoked.


Start media streaming
Starts capturing customer audio for a contact.


Stop media streaming
Stops capturing customer audio after it is started with a Start media streaming block.


Store customer input
Stores numerical input to a contact attribute.


Transfer to agent (beta)
Transfers the customer to an agent.


Transfer to flow
Transfers the customer to another contact flow.


Transfer to phone number
Transfers the customer to a phone number external to your instance.


Transfer to queue
In most contact flows, this block ends the current contact flow and places the customer in queue. When used in a customer queue flow, this block transfers a contact already in a queue to another queue.


Wait
Pauses the contact flow.


