Monitor Live Conversations
Managers can monitor live conversations between agents and customers, and review past conversations. To set this up, you need to add the Set call recording block to your contact flow, assign managers the appropriate permissions, and then show them how to monitor the conversations. 
Important
The monitor feature works only when call recording is enabled on a contact flow. For instructions on adding the Set call recording block to your contact flow, see Set up Call Recording. 
Assign Permissions to Monitor Live Conversations
These permissions enable managers to monitor live conversations and access recordings of past conversations. 
To assign a manager permissions to monitor a live conversation


Go to Users, User management, choose the manager, and then choose Edit.


In the Security Profiles box, assign the manager to the CallCenterManager security profile. This security profile also includes a setting that makes the icon to download recordings appear in the results of the Contact search page. 


Assign the manager to the Agent security profile so they can access the contact control panel. This is so they can monitor the conversation through the contact control panel.


Choose Save. 


Or, to create a new security profile specific for this purpose


Choose Users, User management, Security profiles. 


Choose Add new security profile. 


Expand Metrics and Quality, then choose Manager monitor and Recorded conversations (choose both Access and Enable download button). 


Expand Contact Control Panel, then choose Access Contact Control Panel and Make outbound calls. 


Choose Save. 


Monitor Live Conversations with Customers


Log in to your Amazon Connect instance with a user account that is assigned the CallCenterManager security profile, or that is enabled for the Manager monitor permission.


Open the contact control panel (CCP) by choosing the phone icon in the top-right corner of your screen. You'll need the CCP open to connect to the call. 


To choose the agent conversation you want to monitor, in Amazon Connect choose Metrics and quality, Real-time metrics, Agents.


Next to the names of agents in a live conversation, you'll see a headset icon. Choose the icon to start monitoring the conversation.


When you're monitoring a conversation, the status in your CCP changes to Monitoring.

To stop monitoring the conversation, in the CCP choose End call.

When the agent ends the conversation, monitoring stops automatically.