Save custom reports
You can create custom real-time, historical, and login/logout reports that include only the metrics you're interested in. For instructions, see Create a real-time metrics report and Create a historical metrics report.
After you create a report, you can: 
 Save the custom report and return to it later.
 Share a link to the custom report so only people in your organization who have the link AND who have the appropriate permissions in their security profile can access the report.
 Publish the report so everyone in your organization who has the appropriate permissions in their security profile can view the report.
Personal saved reports count towards quota
Personal saved reports count towards your service quota of reports per instance. For example, if you save a report every day, it will count towards your organization's number of saved reports for the instance. 
For more information about quotas, see Amazon Connect service quotas.
Create a naming convention
All saved reports in your Amazon Connect instance must have a unique name. We recommend creating a naming convention that indicates who the owner of the report is. For example, use the team name or owner alias as the report suffix: Agent Performance - team name. That way, if the report is published, others will know who owns it.
If your organization needs to delete reports because you've reached the service quota for reports for your instance, a naming convention that includes the team or owner alias will help you track down the report owners to find out if the report is still needed. 
How to save reports


Customize a real-time, historical, or login/logout report to include the metrics you want.


Choose Save. If you don't have permissions in your security profile to create reports, this button will be inactive.


Assign a unique name to the report.
Tip
We recommend establishing a naming convention for reports in your organization, especially published reports. This will help everyone identify who the owner is. For example, use the team name or owner alias as the report suffix: Agent Performance - team name.


To view to the report at a later time, go to Metrics and quality, Saved reports.


