Contact block: Set recording and analytics behavior
Contact flow types
You can use this block in the following contact flow types:
 Inbound contact flow
 Customer Queue flow
 Transfer to Agent flow
 Transfer to Queue flow
Description

Sets options for recording and/or monitoring (listen-in) voice and chat conversations.
It enables features in Contact Lens for Amazon Connect. For more information, see Analyze conversations using Contact Lens for Amazon Connect.

Properties

When configuring this block to set up recording behavior, choose as follows:
 To record voice conversations, choose what you want to record: Agent and Customer, Agent only, or Customer only.
 To record chat conversations, you need to choose Agent and Customer.
 To enable monitoring of voice and/or chat conversations, you need to choose Agent and Customer.
For information about using this block to enable Contact Lens, see Enable Contact Lens for Amazon Connect.
Configuration tips

Let's say you have a flow that links to a flow that links to another flow. Each flow might have it's own Set recording behavior block. The last Set recording behavior block overrides the settings of the previous two Set recording behavior blocks. 

For example, you might have a contact flow with Set recording behavior to record Agent and Customer. But if the next Set recording behavior block is set to Agent only, that block overrides the behavior of the previous block. 
 If an agent puts a customer on hold, the agent is still recorded, but the customer is not.
 If you want to transfer a contact to another agent or queue, and you want to continue using Contact Lens to collect data, you need to add to the flow another Set recording behavior block with Enable analytics turn on. This is because a transfer generates a second contact ID and CTR. Contact Lens needs to run on that CTR as well.
Configured block
When this block is configured, it looks similar to the following image:

Sample flows
See these sample flows for scenarios that use this block:
 Sample inbound flow (first contact experience)
Scenarios
See these topics for scenarios that use this block:
 Set up recording behavior
 Monitor live conversations
 Review recorded conversations
 Analyze conversations using Contact Lens for Amazon Connect