Set up agent-to-agent transfers
We recommend using these instructions to set up agent-to-agent voice and chat transfers. You use a Set working queue block to transfer the contact to the agent's queue. The Set working queue block supports an omnichannel experience, whereas the Transfer to agent (beta) block does not.
Step 1: Create the quick connect
Create a quick connect


Choose Routing, Quick connects, Add a new destination.


Enter a name for the connect. Choose the type, and then specify the destination (such as a phone number or the name of an agent), contact flow (if applicable), and description.
Important
A description is required when you create a quick connect. If you don't add one, you'll get an error when you try to save the quick connect. 


To add more quick connects, choose Add new.


Choose Save.


Go to the next procedure to enable your agents to see the quick connects in the Contact Control Panel (CCP).


Enable your agents to see the quick connects in the CCP when they transfer a contact


After you create the quick connect, go to Routing, Queues and then choose the appropriate queue for the contact to be routed to.


On the Edit queue page, in the Quick connect box, search for the quick connect you created.


Select the quick connect and then choose Save.


Tip
Agents see all of the quick connects for the queues in their routing profile.
Step 2: Set up the "Transfer to agent" contact flow
In this step, you create a contact flow that's type Transfer to agent and use a Set working queue block to transfer the contact to the agent. 


In the navigation pane, choose Routing, Contact flows.


Use the drop-down to choose Create transfer to agent flow. 


Type a name and a description for your contact flow.


In the left navigation menu, expand Set, and then drag the Set working queue block to the canvas.


Configure the Set working queue block as shown in the following image:



Choose By agent.


Choose Use attribute.


For Type, use the dropdown box to select Agent.


For Attribute, use the dropdown box to select User name.


Add a Transfer to queue block. You don't need to configure this block.



Save and publish this contact flow.


To show your agents how to transfer chats to another agent, see Transfer chats to another queue. 

