Step 4: Create a contact flow
Although Amazon Connect comes with a set of built-in contact flows, you can create your own contact flows to determine how a customer experiences your contact center. The contact flows contain the prompts that customers hear or see, and they transfer them to the right queue or agent, among other things.
In this step, create a contact flow that's specific to the IT Help Desk experience that you're creating.


On the navigation menu, go to Routing, Contact flows.



Choose Create contact flow.



The contact flow designer opens. Enter a name for the contact flow, such as Test contact flow.



Choose the drop-down arrows to expand the sections to access the blocks in them.



Drag the following blocks onto the grid: Set logging behavior (in the Set group), Set voice (in the Set group), and Play prompt (in the Interact group). 



Use your mouse to drag an arrow from the Start block to the Set logging behavior block. 



Connect the remaining blocks, as shown in the following image. 



Choose the Play prompt title to open its properties page. 



Configure the Play prompt block, as shown in the following image, and then choose Save.



Add a Get customer input block and connect to the Play prompt block.



Choose the title of the Get customer input block to open the properties page.



Configure the Get customer input block, as shown in the following images.




While still in the Get customer input block, choose Add an intent.



Enter the names of the intents that you created in the Amazon Lex bot. They are case sensitive!



Choose Save.


Add a Play prompt block (from the Interact group) and connect it to the PasswordReset branch. 



Choose the Play prompt title to open its properties page. Configure the Play prompt block with the message We’re putting you in a queue to help you with password reset. Choose Save.



Add a second Play prompt block and connect it to the NetworkIssue branch.



Choose the Play prompt title to open its properties page. Configure the Play prompt block with the message We’re putting you in a queue to help you with your network issues. Choose Save.


Add a Disconnect / hang up block (from the Terminate/Transfer group) to the grid. Connect the Default and Error branches to it.



Add a Set working queue block (from the Set group) to the grid. Connect the Play prompt.



Choose the Set working queue title to open its properties page. Configure the Set working queue block by using the drop-down arrow to choose the PasswordReset queue. Choose Save



Add a Set working queue block for NetworkIssue, and configure it with the NetworkIssue queue.



Drag two Transfer to queue blocks (from the Terminate/Transfer group) onto the grid.


Connect each of the Set working queue blocks to a Transfer to queue block, as shown in the following image.



Drag another Disconnect/hang up block onto the grid. Connect all of the remaining Error and At capacity branches to it.



The completed contact flow looks similar to the following image.



Choose Save, and then choose Publish.

Tip
Any blocks that aren't connected or configured correctly generate an error. If this happens, double-check that all branches are connected.


When the contact flow publishes, it displays the message that it saved successfully.



If the contact flow doesn't save, double-check that all the branches are connected to blocks. That's the most common reason contact flows don't publish. 