Managing event notifications using the Amazon Redshift console
Topics
 Creating an event notification subscription
You can create an Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) event notification subscription to send notifications when an event occurs for a given Amazon Redshift cluster, snapshot, security group, or parameter group. These notifications are sent to an SNS topic, which in turn transmits messages to any SNS consumers subscribed to the topic. The SNS messages to the consumers can be in any notification form supported by Amazon SNS for an AWS Region, such as an email, a text message, or a call to an HTTP endpoint. For example, all regions support email notifications, but SMS notifications can only be created in the US East (N. Virginia) Region. For more information, see Amazon Redshift event notifications.
This section describes how to manage Amazon Redshift event notification subscriptions from the AWS Management Console.
Creating an event notification subscription
Note
A new console is available for Amazon Redshift. Choose either the New console or the Original console instructions based on the console that you are using. The New console instructions are open by default.
New console
To create an event subscription


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon Redshift console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshift/.


On the navigation menu, choose EVENTS. 


Choose the Event subscription tab, then choose Create event subscriptions. 


Enter the properties of your event subscription, such as name, source type, category, and severity. You can also enable Amazon SNS topics to get notified of events. 


Choose Create event subscriptions to create your subscription. 


Original console
To create an Amazon Redshift event notification subscription


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon Redshift console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshift/.


In the navigation pane, choose Events, and then choose the Subscriptions tab. 


In the Subscriptions pane, choose Create Event Subscription. 


In the Create Event Subscription dialog box, do the following:


Use the Subscription Settings pane to specify the event filter criteria. As you choose the criteria, the Subscribed Events list displays the Amazon Redshift events that match the criteria. Do the following:


For Categories, choose one or more event categories. To specify all categories, choose Category. To choose a subset of the categories, choose the buttons for the categories to be included.


For Severity, choose an event severity. If you choose Any, events with severities of either INFO or ERROR are published. If you choose Error, only events with a severity of ERROR are published.


For Source Type, choose a source type. Only events raised by resources of that source type, such as clusters or cluster parameter groups, are published by the event subscription.


For Resources, specify whether events should be published from all resources having the specified source type, or only a subset. Choose Any to publish events from all resources of the specified type. Choose Choose Specific if you want to choose specific resources.
Note
The name of the Resource box changes to match the value specified in Source Type. For example, if you choose Cluster in Source Type, the name of the Resources box changes to Clusters.
If you choose Choose Specific, you can then specify the IDs of the specific resources whose events are published by the event subscription. You specify the resources one at a time and add them to the event subscription. You can only specify resources that are in the same AWS Region as the event subscription. The events you specify are listed below the Specify IDs box.


To specify an existing resource, find the resource in the Specify IDs box, and choose the  button in the Add column.


To specify the ID of a resource before you create it, enter the ID in the box below the Specify IDs box and choose Add. You can do this to add resources that you plan to create later.


To remove a resource from the event subscription, choose the X box to the right of the resource.






At the bottom of the pane, enter a name for the event notification subscription for Name.


Choose Yes to enable the subscription. If you want to create the subscription but to not send notifications yet, choose No. A confirmation message is sent when the subscription is created, regardless of this setting.


Choose Next to proceed to specifying the Amazon SNS topic.



Use one of three tabs to specify the Amazon SNS topic that the subscription uses to publish events.


To choose an existing Amazon SNS topic by from a list, choose the Use Existing Topic tab and choose the topic from the list.


To specify an existing Amazon SNS topic by its Amazon Resource Name (ARN), choose the Provide Topic ARN tab and specify the ARN in the ARN: box. You can find the ARN of an Amazon SNS topic by using the Amazon SNS console:


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon SNS console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/sns/v3/home.


In the navigation pane, expand Topics.


Choose the topic to include in the Amazon Redshift event subscription.


In the Topic Details pane, copy the value of the Topic ARN: field.




To have the subscription create operation also create a new Amazon SNS topic, choose the Create New Topic tab and do the following:


Type a name for the topic for Name.


For each notification recipient, choose the notification method for Send, specify a valid address for to, and then choose Add Recipient. You can only create SMS entries in the US East (N. Virginia) Region.


To remove a recipient, choose the red X in the Remove column.







To create the subscription, choose Create. To delete the definition without creating a subscription, choose Cancel. To return to the subscription settings, choose Previous.


(Original console) Managing event subscriptions
Listing your Amazon Redshift event notification subscriptions
You can list your current Amazon Redshift event notification subscriptions.
To list your current Amazon Redshift event notification subscriptions


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon Redshift console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshift/.


In the navigation pane, choose Events. The Subscriptions tab shows all your event notification subscriptions.


Modifying an Amazon Redshift event notification subscription
After you have created a subscription, you can change the subscription name, source identifier, categories, or topic ARN.
To modify an Amazon Redshift event notification subscription


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon Redshift console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshift/.


In the navigation pane, choose Events, and then choose the Subscriptions tab. 


In the Subscriptions pane, choose the subscription that you want to modify, and choose Modify. 


In the Modify Event Subscription dialog box, do the following:


Use the Subscription Settings pane to change the event filter criteria. As you choose the criteria, the Subscribed Events list displays the Amazon Redshift events that match the criteria. Do the following:


For Categories, choose one or more event categories. To specify all categories, choose Category. To choose a subset of the categories, choose the buttons for the categories to be included.


For Severity, choose an event severity.


For Source Type, choose a source type.


For Resources, choose the IDs of the resources from the given source type. Only events raised by the specified resources are published by the subscription.




For Enabled, choose Yes to enable the subscription. Choose No to disable the subscription.


Choose Next to proceed to changing the Amazon SNS topic.


Use one of three tabs to change the Amazon SNS topic for the subscription to use to publish events.


To choose an existing Amazon SNS topic from a list, choose the Use Existing Topic tab and choose the topic from the list.


To specify an existing Amazon SNS topic by its Amazon Resource Name (ARN), choose the Provide ARN tab and specify the ARN in the ARN box.


To have the subscription modify operation also create a new Amazon SNS topic, choose the Create New Topic tab and do the following:


Enter a name for the topic for Name.


For each notification recipient, choose the notification method for Send, specify a valid address for to, and then choose Add Recipient. You can only create SMS entries in the US East (N. Virginia) Region.


To remove a recipient, choose the red X in the Remove column.






To save your changes, choose Modify. To delete your changes without modifying the subscription, choose Cancel. To return to the subscription settings, choose Previous.


Adding a source identifier to an Amazon Redshift event notification subscription
You can add a source identifier (the Amazon Redshift source generating the event) to an existing subscription.
To add a source identifier to an Amazon Redshift event notification subscription


You can easily add or remove source identifiers using the Amazon Redshift console by selecting or deselecting them when modifying a subscription. For more information, see Modifying an Amazon Redshift event notification subscription.


To save your changes, choose Modify. To delete your changes without modifying the subscription, choose Cancel. To return to the subscription settings, choose Previous.


Removing a source identifier from an Amazon Redshift event notification subscription
You can remove a source identifier (the Amazon Redshift source generating the event) from a subscription if you no longer want to be notified of events for that source. 
To remove a source identifier from an Amazon Redshift event notification subscription
 You can easily add or remove source identifiers using the Amazon Redshift console by selecting or deselecting them when modifying a subscription. For more information, see Modifying an Amazon Redshift event notification subscription.
Deleting an Amazon Redshift event notification subscription
You can delete a subscription when you no longer need it. All subscribers to the topic will no longer receive event notifications specified by the subscription.
To delete an Amazon Redshift event notification subscription


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon Redshift console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshift/.


In the navigation pane, choose Events, and then choose the Subscriptions tab. 


In the Subscriptions pane, choose the subscription that you want to delete. 


Choose Delete.

