Managing resource tags using the console
Note
A new console is available for Amazon Redshift. Choose either the New console or the Original console instructions based on the console that you are using. The New console instructions are open by default.
New console
To manage tags on your Amazon Redshift resources


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon Redshift console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/redshift/.


On the navigation menu, choose CONFIG, then choose Manage tags. 


Enter your choices for the resources and choose which tags to add, modify, or delete. Then choose Manage tags of the resources that you chose. 


Resources that you can tag include clusters, parameter groups, subnet groups, HSM client certificates, HSM connections, and snapshots.

On the Manage tagsnavigation page, choose Review and apply tag changes, then choose Apply to save your changes. 

Original console
The following is an example of the Manage Tags window for an Amazon Redshift resource, such as a cluster or a parameter group. 

You use the Add Tags section to add key pairs to an Amazon Redshift resource. When you begin entering a key pair in the Add Tags section, a new row will appear so that you can add another key pair, and so on. For more information about allowed characters for keys and values, see Tagging requirements.
If you decide that you don't want to add a particular tag to the resource, you can remove it from the Add Tags section by choosing the X in the row. Once you have specified the key pairs that you want to add, you apply the changes so that they are associated with the resource. 
After you add key pairs to a resource, they display in the Applied Tags section; this is the tag set for the resource. You can modify a tag value, but you can't modify the key name. You can, however, delete a key if you no longer need it for the resource. 
You can view the tags for a resource by reviewing the Applied Tags section of the Manage Tags window. Alternatively, you can quickly view tags by navigating to a resource type in the navigation pane, and then expanding the resource in the list to view the Tags section. The following is an example of a cluster expanded to show various properties, including tags associated with the cluster. 

How to open the manage tags window
The following table describes how to open the Manage Tags window for each of the Amazon Redshift resources that support tags. 
[See the AWS documentation website for more details]
How to manage tags in the Amazon Redshift console
Use the table in the previous section to navigate to the resource that you want to work with. Then use the procedures in this section to add, modify, delete, and view tags for the resource. 
To add tags to a resource


Navigate to the resource to which you want to add tags, and open the Manage Tags window.


Under Add Tags, type a key name in the Key box and the key value in the Value box. For example, type environment in the Key box and production in the Value box. Repeat this step to add any additional tags. 


Choose Apply Changes. 


To modify tags associated with a resource


Navigate to the resource for which you want to modify tags, and open the Manage Tags window.


Under Applied Tags, locate the key that you want to modify. In the Value box, type a new key value. Repeat for any other tags that you want to modify. 


Choose Apply Changes. 


To delete tags associated with a resource


Navigate to the resource from which you want to delete tags, and open the Manage Tags window.


Under Applied Tags, locate the key that you want to delete. Select the Delete check box. Repeat for any other tags that you want to delete. 


Choose Apply Changes. 

