Streaming CloudWatch Logs Data to Amazon Elasticsearch Service
You can configure a CloudWatch Logs log group to stream data it receives to your Amazon Elasticsearch Service (Amazon ES) cluster in near real-time through a CloudWatch Logs subscription. For more information, see Real-time Processing of Log Data with Subscriptions.
Depending on the amount of log data being streamed, you might want to set a function-level concurrent execution limit on the function. For more information, see Function Level Concurrent Execution Limit.
Note
Streaming large amounts of CloudWatch Logs data to Amazon ES might result in high usage charges. We recommend that you create a Budget in the Billing and Cost Management console. For more information, see Managing Your Costs with Budgets.
Prerequisites
Before you begin, create an Amazon ES domain. The Amazon ES domain can have either public access or VPC access, but you cannot then modify the type of access after the domain is created. You might want to review your Amazon ES domain settings later, and modify your cluster configuration based on the amount of data your cluster will be processing.
For more information about Amazon ES, see the Amazon Elasticsearch Service Developer Guide.
To create an Amazon ES domain
At a command prompt, use the following create-elasticsearch-domain command:
aws es create-elasticsearch-domain --domain-name my-domain
Subscribe a Log Group to Amazon ES
You can use the CloudWatch console to subscribe a log group to Amazon ES.
To subscribe a log group to Amazon ES


Open the CloudWatch console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/.


In the navigation pane, choose Log groups.


Choose the name of the log group.


Choose Actions, Create Elastisearch subscription filter.


Choose whether you want to stream to a cluster in this account or another account.


For Amazon ES cluster, choose the cluster you created in the previous step.


Under Lambda Function, for Lambda IAM Execution Role, choose the IAM role that Lambda should use when executing calls to Amazon ES, and then choose Next.


The IAM role you choose must fulfill these requirements:
    It must have lambda.amazonaws.com in the trust relationship.
    It must include the following policy:
 ```
 {
     "Version": "2012-10-17",
     "Statement": [
         {
             "Action": [
                 "es:*"
             ],
             "Effect": "Allow",
             "Resource": "arn:aws:es:region:account-id:domain/target-domain-name/*"
         }
     ]
 }
 ```


If the target Amazon ES domain uses VPC access, the role must have the  AWSLambdaVPCAccessExecutionRole policy attached. This Amazon-managed policy grants Lambda access to the customer's VPC, enabling Lambda to write to the Amazon ES endpoint in the VPC. 



For Log Format, choose a log format.


For Subscription Filter Pattern, type the terms or pattern to find in your log events. This ensures that you send only the data you are interested in to your Amazon ES cluster. For more information, see Creating Metrics From Log Events Using Filters.


(Optional) For Select Log Data to Test, select a log stream and then choose Test Pattern to verify that your search filter is returning the results you expect.


Choose Start Streaming.

