Exporting and importing AWS Elemental MediaConvert jobs
Completed MediaConvert jobs remain on the Jobs page for three months. If you want to be able to run a new job based on a completed job more than three months after you run it, export the job after it is complete and save it. Depending on how many jobs that you run, exporting and then importing a job can be simpler than finding a particular job in your list and duplicating it.
To export a completed job


Open the MediaConvert console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/mediaconvert.


On the navigation bar of the MediaConvert console, choose the Region where the job that you want to export was created.


Completed jobs appear only in the Region where they are created.



Choose the three-bar icon on the left to access the left navigation pane.


Choose Jobs to display the Jobs page.
Tip
Optionally, from the Status dropdown list, choose Complete to filter your list of jobs to just those that finished successfully.


On the Jobs page, from the Job ID column of the job history, choose the job that you want to export.


On the Job summary page, choose the Export JSON button.


Choose a file location for your exported JSON job specification on the hard drive of the computer that you use to operate the MediaConvert console, and then save the file.


To create a job by importing a previously exported completed job


Open the MediaConvert console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/mediaconvert.


On the navigation bar of the MediaConvert console, choose the Region where you want to create your new job.


Choose the three-bar icon on the left to access the left navigation pane.


Choose Jobs to display the Jobs page.


On the Jobs page, choose the Import job button.


Modify any settings that you want to be different in the new job.


For more information about each setting, choose the Info link located next to the setting or next to the heading for the group of settings.
Tip
Settings that are likely to change from job to job include the following: input file location, output destination locations, and output name modifiers. If you run transcoding jobs for customers of yours who have different AWS accounts from your account, you also must change the IAM role under Job settings.

Choose the Create button at the bottom of the page.
