Visualizing and monitoring your global network using the Network Manager console
The Network Manager console provides a dashboard that enables you to visualize and monitor your global network. It includes information about the resources in your global network, their geographic location, the network topology, Amazon CloudWatch metrics and events, and enables you to perform route analysis.
To access the dashboard for your global network


Open the Network Manager console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/networkmanager/. 


Choose the ID for your global network.


Topics
 Overview
 Details
 Geographic
 Topology
 Events
 Monitoring
 Route Analyzer
Overview

On the Overview page, you can view the following information:
 The inventory of your global network.
 A list of the transit gateways that are registered in your global network, and the overall status of the VPN connection attachments for those transit gateways. To visualize and monitor an individual transit gateway, choose the transit gateway ID, or choose Transit gateways in the navigation pane.
 A summary of network events, for example, topology changes in your global network.
Details
On the Details page, you can view information about the global network resource, including the following: 
 The Amazon Resource Name (ARN)
 The name and description
 The state
 The AWS account ID
 The assigned tags
Geographic

On the Geographic page, you can view the locations of the resources that are registered in your global network on a map. Lines on the map represent connections between the resources, and the line colors represent the type of connection and their state. You can choose any of the location points to view information about the resources in that location.
Topology

On the Topology page, you can view the network tree for your global network. By default, the page displays all resources in your global network and the logical relationships between them. You can filter the network tree to show specific on-premises resource types only, for example, the preceding image shows sites and devices, and excludes customer gateways. You can choose any of the nodes to view information about the specific resource it represents. The line colors represent the state of the relationships between AWS and the on-premises resources.
Customer gateways are represented as the resource that you define in AWS. They are displayed to the left of the VPN connection and tunnel endpoint IP addresses, as shown in the following example.

Events
On the Events page, you can view the system events that describe changes in your global network. For more information, see Monitoring your global network with CloudWatch Events.
Monitoring
On the Monitoring page, you can view CloudWatch metrics for the transit gateways, VPN connections, and on-premises resources in your global network. For more information, see Monitoring your global network with Amazon CloudWatch metrics.
Route Analyzer
On the Route Analyzer page, you can perform an analysis of the routes in your transit gateway route tables. This enables to you visualize routing paths and troubleshoot route-related connectivity issues. For more information, see Route Analyzer.