Transit gateway VPN attachments
To attach a VPN connection to your transit gateway, you must specify the customer gateway. For more information about the requirements for a customer gateway device, see Requirements for your customer gateway device in the AWS Site-to-Site VPN User Guide.
For static VPNs, add the static routes to the transit gateway route table.
Create a transit gateway attachment to a VPN
To create a VPN attachment using the console


Open the Amazon VPC console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/.


On the navigation pane, choose Transit Gateway Attachments.


Choose Create Transit Gateway Attachment.


For Transit Gateway ID, choose the transit gateway for the attachment. You can choose a transit gateway that you own.


For Attachment type, choose VPN.


For Customer Gateway, do one of the following:
    To use an existing customer gateway, choose Existing, and then select the gateway to use.
If your customer gateway is behind a network address translation (NAT) device that's enabled for NAT traversal (NAT-T), use the public IP address of your NAT device, and adjust your firewall rules to unblock UDP port 4500.
    To create a customer gateway, choose New, then for IP Address, type a static public IP address and BGP ASN.
For Routing options, choose whether to use Dynamic or Static. For more information, see Site-to-Site VPN Routing Options in the AWS Site-to-Site VPN User Guide.


For Tunnel Options, see Site-to-Site VPN Tunnel Options for your Site-to-Site VPN Connection in the AWS Site-to-Site VPN User Guide.


Choose Create attachment.


To create a VPN attachment using the AWS CLI
Use the create-vpn-connection command.
View your VPN attachments
To view your VPN attachments using the console


Open the Amazon VPC console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/.


On the navigation pane, choose Transit Gateway Attachments.


Choose the search bar, select Resource type from the menu, and then select VPN.


The VPN attachments are displayed. Choose an attachment to view its details or to add tags.


To view your VPN attachments using the AWS CLI
Use the describe-transit-gateway-attachments command.