Quotas for your transit gateways
Your AWS account has the following service quotas (previously referred to as limits) related to transit gateways. Unless indicated otherwise, you can request an increase for a quota. For more information about service quotas, see AWS Service Quotas in the Amazon Web Services General Reference.
General

Number of transit gateways per Region per account: 5

Routing

Number of transit gateway route tables per transit gateway: 20
Number of routes per transit gateway: 10,000

For VPC route table quotas, see Amazon VPC quotas in the Amazon VPC User Guide.
Transit gateway attachments

Total number of transit gateway attachments per transit gateway: 5,000
Number of unique transit gateway attachments per VPC: 5

This value cannot be increased. A transit gateway cannot have more than one attachment to the same VPC.
 Number of transit gateway peering attachments per transit gateway: 50
 Number of transit gateway peering attachments between two transit gateways: 1
 Number of pending transit gateway peering attachments transit gateway:10
Bandwidth

Maximum bandwidth (burst) per VPC, Direct Connect gateway, or peered transit gateway connection: 50 Gbps
Maximum bandwidth per VPN tunnel: 1.25 Gbps

This is a hard value. You can use ECMP to get higher VPN bandwidth by aggregating multiple VPN tunnels. To use ECMP, the VPN connection must be configured for dynamic routing. ECMP is not supported on VPN connections that use static routing.
AWS Direct Connect gateways

Number of AWS Direct Connect gateways per transit gateway: 20

This value cannot be increased.
 Transit gateways per AWS Direct Connect gateway: 3
This value cannot be increased.
MTU

The maximum transmission unit (MTU) of a network connection is the size, in bytes, of the largest permissible packet that can be passed over the connection. The larger the MTU of a connection, the more data can be passed in a single packet. A transit gateway supports an MTU of 8500 bytes for traffic between VPCs, Direct Connect and peering attachments. Traffic over VPN connections can have an MTU of 1500 bytes. 
Packets with a size larger than 8500 bytes which arrive at the transit gateway are dropped.
The transit gateway does not generate the FRAG_NEEDEDICMP packet, so Path MTU Discovery (PMTUD) is not supported.
The transit gateway enforces Maximum Segment Size (MSS) clamping for all packets. For more information, see RFC879.

Multicast

Number of multicast domains per transit gateway: 20
Number of multicast group members and sources per transit gateway: 1000
Number of members per transit gateway multicast group: 100
Number of multicast domain associations per VPC: 20
Number of sources per transit gateway multicast group: 1

Additional quota resources
For information about quotas that apply to Site-to-Site VPN connections, see Site-to-Site VPN Quotas in the AWS Site-to-Site VPN User Guide.
For information about quotas that apply to VPC attachments see Amazon VPC Quotas in the Amazon VPC User Guide.
For information about quotas that apply to Direct Connect gateway attachments see AWS Direct Connect Quotas in the AWS Direct Connect User Guide.
For more information about service quotas for Transit Gateway Network Manager, see Network Manager quotas.