Pushing a multi-architecture image
Amazon ECR supports creating and pushing Docker manifest lists which are used for multi-architecture images. A manifest list is a list of images that is created by specifying one or more image names. Typically the manifest list is created from images that serve the same function but for different operating systems or architectures, but this is not required. For more information, see docker manifest.
Important
Your Docker CLI must have experimental features enabled to use this feature. For more information, see Experimental features.
A manifest list can be pulled or referenced in an Amazon ECS task definition or Amazon EKS pod spec like other Amazon ECR images.
The following steps can be used to create and push a Docker manifest list to an Amazon ECR repository. You must already have the images pushed to your repository to reference in the Docker manifest. For information on pushing an image, see Pushing an image.
To push a multi-architecture Docker image to an Amazon ECR repository


Authenticate your Docker client to the Amazon ECR registry to which you intend to push your image. Authentication tokens must be obtained for each registry used, and the tokens are valid for 12 hours. For more information, see Registry authentication.


List the images in your repository, confirming the image tags.


aws ecr describe-images --repository-name my-web-app

Create the Docker manifest list. The manifest create command verifies that the referenced images are already in your repository and creates the manifest locally.

docker manifest create aws_account_id.dkr.ecr.region.amazonaws.com/my-web-app aws_account_id.dkr.ecr.region.amazonaws.com/my-web-app:image_one_tag aws_account_id.dkr.ecr.region.amazonaws.com/my-web-app:image_two

(Optional) Inspect the Docker manifest list. This enables you to confirm the size and digest for each image manifest referenced in the manifest list.

docker manifest inspect aws_account_id.dkr.ecr.region.amazonaws.com/my-web-app

Push the Docker manifest list to your Amazon ECR repository.

docker manifest push aws_account_id.dkr.ecr.region.amazonaws.com/my-web-app