Troubleshooting the Discovery Connector
This section contains topics that can help you troubleshoot known issues with Application Discovery Service.
Fixing Discovery Connector cannot reach AWS during setup
When configuring the AWS Agentless Discovery Connector in the console you can get the following error message: 
Could Not Reach AWS
AWS cannot be reached (connection reset). Please verify network and proxy settings.
This error occurs because of a failed attempt by the Discovery Connector to establish an HTTPS connection to ec2.amazonaws.com during the setup process. The Discovery Connector configuration fails if a connection can't be established.
To fix the connection to AWS


Check if your firewall is blocking egress traffic to ec2.amazonaws.com. If it is, unblock it. After you update the firewall, reconfigure the Discovery Connector.


If updating the firewall does not resolve the connection issue, check to make sure that the connector virtual machine has outbound network connectivity. If the virtual machine has outbound connectivity, test the connection to aws.amazon.com and ec2.amazonaws.com by running telnet on ports 80 and 443 as shown in the following example.


telnet ec2.amazonaws.com 80

If outbound connectivity from the virtual machine is enabled, you must contact AWS Support for further troubleshooting.

Fixing unhealthy connectors
Health information for every Discovery Connector can be found in the Data Collectors page of the Migration Hub console. You can identify connectors with problems by finding any connectors with a Health status of Unhealthy. The following procedure outlines how to access the connector console to identify health issues.
Access a connector console


Open the Migration Hub console in a web browser, and choose Data Collectors from the left hand navigation.


From the Connectors tab, make a note of the IP address for each connector that has a health status of Unhealthy.


Open a browser on any computer that can connect to the connector virtual machine, and enter the URL of the connector console, https://ip_address_of_connector, where ip_address_of_connector is the IP address of an unhealthy connector.


Enter the connector management console password, which was set up when the connector was configured.


Once you've accessed the connector console, you can take actions to resolve an unhealthy status. Here you can choose View Info for vCenter connectivity, and you'll get a dialog box with a diagnostic message. The View Info link is only available on connectors that are version 1.0.3.12 or later.
After correcting the health issues, the connector will re-establish connectivity with vCenter server, and the connector's status will change to the HEALTHY state. If the issues persist, contact AWS Support.
The most common causes for unhealthy connectors are IP address issues and credentials issues. The following sections can help you resolve these issues and return a connector to a healthy state. 
Topics
 IP address issues
 Credentials issues
IP address issues
A connector can go into an unhealthy state if the vCenter endpoint provided during connector setup is malformed, invalid, or if the vCenter server is currently down and not reachable. In this case, when you choose View Info for vCenter connectivity you'll get a dialog box with the message "Confirm the operational status of your vCenter server, or choose Edit Settings to update the vCenter endpoint."
The following procedure can help you resolve IP address issues.


From the connector console (https://ip_address_of_connector), choose Edit Settings.


From the left-side navigation, choose Step 5: Discovery Connector Set Up. 


From Configure vCenter credentials, make a note of the vCenter Host IP address.


Using a separate command line tool like ping or traceroute, validate that the associated vCenter server is active and the IP is reachable from the connector VM.
    If the IP address is incorrect and the vCenter service is active, then update the IP address in the connector console, and choose Next.
    If the IP address is correct but the vCenter server is inactive, activate it.
    If the IP address is correct and the vCenter server is active, check if it is blocking ingress network connections due to firewall issues. If yes, update your firewall settings to allow incoming connections from the connector VM.


Credentials issues
Connectors can go into an unhealthy state if the vCenter user credentials provided during connector setup, are invalid, or do not have vCenter read and view account privileges. In this case, when you choose View Info for vCenter connectivity you'll get a dialog box with the message "Choose Edit Settings to update your vCenter username and password for your account with read and view privileges."
The following procedure can help you resolve credentials issues. As a prerequisite, ensure that you have created a vCenter user that has read and view account permissions on vCenter server.


From the connector console (https://ip_address_of_connector), choose Edit Settings.


From the left-side navigation, choose Step 5: Discovery Connector Set Up. 


From Configure vCenter credentials, update the vCenter Username and vCenter Password by providing the credentials for a vCenter user with read and view permissions.


Choose Next to complete setup.


Standalone ESX host support
The Discovery Connector does not support a standalone ESX host. The ESX host must be part of the vCenter Server instance.
Getting additional support for connector issues
If you encounter problems and need help, contact AWS Support. You will be contacted and may be asked to send the connector logs. To obtain the logs, do the following:
 Log back in to the AWS Agentless Discovery Connector console (as you did during configuration) and choose Download log bundle.
 Once the log bundle has finished downloading, send it as instructed by AWS Support.