View, Export, and Explore Server Data
The Servers page provides system configuration and performance data about each server instance known to the data collection tools. You can view server information, sort servers with filters, tag servers with key-value pairs, and export detailed server and system information. 
Topics
 Viewing and Sorting Servers
 Tagging Servers
 Exporting Server Data
 Data Exploration in Athena
 Applications
Viewing and Sorting Servers
You can view information about the servers discovered by the data collection tools, and you can sort through the servers using filters.
Viewing Servers
You can get a general view and a detailed view of the servers discovered by the data collection tools. 
To view discovered servers


In the navigation pane, choose Servers. The discovered servers appear in the servers list. 


For more detail about a server, choose its server link in the Server info column. Doing so displays a screen that describes the server.


The server's detail screen displays system information and performance metrics. You can also find a button to export network dependencies and processes information. To export detailed server information, see Exporting Server Data.
Sorting Servers with Search Filters
To easily find specific servers, apply search filters to sort through all the servers discovered by the collection tools. You can search and filter on numerous criteria.
To sort servers by applying search filters


In the navigation pane, choose Servers.


Click inside the search bar, and choose a search criterion from the list.


Choose an operator from the next list.


Type in a case-sensitive value for the search criterion you selected, and press Enter.


Multiple filters can be applied by repeating steps 2 - 4.


Tagging Servers
To assist migration planning and help stay organized, you can create multiple tags for each server. Tags are user-defined key-value pairs that can store any custom data or metadata about servers. You can tag an individual server or multiple servers in a single operation. Application Discovery Service tags are similar to AWS tags, but the two types of tag cannot be used interchangeably. 
You can add or remove multiple tags for one or more servers from the main Servers page. On a server's detail page, you can add or remove one or more tags for the selected server. You can do any type of tagging task involving multiple servers or tags in a single operation. You can also remove tags.
To add tags to one or more servers


In the navigation pane, choose Servers.


In the Server info column, choose the server link for the server that you want to add tags for. To add tags to more than one server at a time, click inside the check boxes of multiple servers.


Choose Add tag.


In the dialog box, type a value in the Key field, and optionally a value in the Value field.


Add more tags by choosing Additional tag  and adding more information.


Choose Add Tags. A green confirmation message will be displayed at the top of the screen.


Optionally, tags can be added for an individual server from its detail page by choosing Actions, and then Add tag and repeating the above steps.


To remove tags from one or more servers


In the navigation pane, choose Servers.


In the Server info column, choose the server link for the server that you want to remove tags from. Click inside the check boxes of multiple servers to remove tags from more than one server at a time.


For Actions, choose Remove tag.


Select each tag you want to remove, or choose select all.


Choose Remove. A green confirmation message appears at the top of the screen.


Optionally, tags can be removed for an individual server from its detail page by choosing Actions, and then Remove tag and repeating the above steps.


Exporting Server Data
To export network dependencies and process information for one server at a time, you can use a server's detail screen. You can find the export jobs for a server in a table located in the Exports section of the server's detail screen. If no export jobs yet exist, the table is empty. You can simultaneously export up to five collections of data.
Note
Exporting server data from the console is only available for data collected by an agent running on that server. If you want to download data collected by a connector, see Export System Performance Data for All Servers. Or, if you want to bulk export data for all servers where agents have been installed, see Data Exploration in Amazon Athena.
To export detailed server data


In the navigation pane, choose Servers.


In the Server info column, choose the ID of the server for which you want to export data. 


In the Exports section at the bottom of the screen, choose Export server details.


For Export server details, fill in Start date and Time. 
Note
The start time can't be more than 72 hours before the current time.


Choose Export to start the job. The initial status is In-progress; to update the status, click the refresh icon for the Exports section.


When the export job is complete, choose Download and save the .zip file.


Unzip the saved file. A set of .csv files contains the export data, similar to the following:
    _destinationProcessConnection.csv
    _networkInterface.csv
    _osInfo.csv
    _process.csv
    _sourceProcessConnection.csv
    _systemPerformance.csv


You can open the .csv files in Microsoft Excel and review the exported server data. 
Among the files, you can find a JSON file containing data about the export task and its results. 
Data Exploration in Athena
Data Exploration in Amazon Athena allows you to analyze the data collected from all the discovered on-premises servers by Discovery Agents in one place. Once Data Exploration in Amazon Athena is enabled from the Migration Hub console (or by using the StartContinousExport API) and the data collection for agents is turned on, data collected by agents will automatically get stored in your S3 bucket at regular intervals. For more information, see Data Exploration in Amazon Athena.
Applications
Some of your discovered servers might need to be migrated together to remain functional. In this case, you can logically define and group discovered servers into applications. 
As part of the grouping process, you can search, filter, and add tags.
To group servers into a new or existing application


In the navigation pane, choose Servers.


In the servers list, select each server that you want to group into a new or existing application.


To help choose servers for your group, you can search and filter on any criteria that you specify in the server list. Click inside the search bar and choose an item from the list, choose an operator from the next list, and then type in your criteria.


Optional: For each selected server, choose Add tag, type a value for Key, and then optionally type a value for Value.


Choose Group as application to create your application, or add to an existing one. 


In the Group as application dialog box, choose Group as a new application or Add to an existing application.


If you chose Group as a new application, type a name for Application name. Optionally, you can type a description for Application description.


If you chose Add to an existing application, select the name of the application to add to in the list.


Choose Save. 

