Activity details for Overall VPC flow volume
The activity details for Overall VPC flow volume show the interactions between an EC2 instance and IP addresses during a selected time range.
To display the activity details, choose View flow details.
Content of the activity details
When you first display the activity details, the content reflects the activity during the current scope time.
The activity details contain an entry for each unique combination of IP address, local port, remote port, protocol, and direction.
Each entry displays the volume of inbound traffic, the volume of outbound traffic, and whether the access request was accepted or rejected. On finding profiles, the Annotations column indicates when an IP address is related to the current finding.

Sorting the activity details
You can sort the activity details by any of the columns in the table.
By default, the activity details are sorted first by the annotations, then by the inbound traffic.
Filtering the activity details
To focus on specific activity, you can filter the activity details by the following values:
 IP address
 Local or remote port
 Direction
 Protocol
 Whether the request was accepted or rejected
To add and remove filters


Choose the filter box.


From Properties, choose the property to use for the filtering.


Provide the value to use for the filtering. The filter supports partial values.


To filter by IP address, you can either specify a value or choose a built-in filter.
For CIDR patterns, you can choose to only include public IP addresses, private IP addresses, or IP addresses that match a specific CIDR pattern.


If you have multiple filters, choose a Boolean option to set how those filters are connected.



To remove a filter, choose the x icon in the top right corner.


To clear all of the filters, choose Clear filter.


Selecting the time range for the activity details
The time range for the activity details is highlighted on the profile panel charts.
By default, the activity details are for the current scope time. You can change the time range for the activity details.
To change the time range for the activity details


Choose Edit.


On Edit time window, choose the start and end time to use.


Choose Update time window.


The time range for the activity details is highlighted on the profile panel charts.

Displaying the volume of traffic for selected rows
When you identify rows that are of interest, you can display on the main charts the volume of traffic over time for those rows.
For each row to add to the charts, select the check box. For each selected row, the volume is displayed as a line on the inbound or outbound charts.

To focus on the traffic volume for the selected entries, you can hide the overall volume. To show or hide the overall traffic volume, toggle Overall traffic.
