Setting Up Your Environment
To get started, download and install Android Studio. This includes everything that you need to build for Android.
Lumberyard supports the following minimum versions of the SDK, NDK, and JDK:
 SDK API level 29. Include the following when installing the SDK:
   Google Play APK Expansion Library
   Google Play Licensing Library
   Android SDK Tools
   Android SDK Platform-Tools
   Build Tools 26.x.x or later
 NDK r20
 JDK 1.8
Note
Google requires that new apps submitted to the Google Play store are built against an SDK version that is no more than one year old.
Tip
If you're installing the SDK and NDK for the first time, you might find it useful to locate everything under a single directory on your PC. For example, on a PC, your directory might be C:\android or for macOS, ~/android.
After you install Android Studio, see the following procedure to configure it.
To set up Android Studio


In Android Studio, choose Tools, Android, SDK Manager.



In the SDK Manager dialog box, select the SDK tools to install.


Under the SDK Tools tab, there's a check box for NDK. Make sure that it installs a version that Lumberyard supports before you download and install it. 


We recommend that you download the NDK directly from the Android Developer Portal. If you need an earlier version, you can find it in the archives section.



Follow the prompts to install the tools.


After you download and install these tools, run Lumberyard Setup Assistant.
    For Windows, run lumberyard_version/dev/Tools/LmbrSetup/Win/SetupAssitant.exe.
    For macOS, run lumberyard_version/dev/Tools/LmbrSetup/Mac/SetupAssitant.app.


On the Get Started page, select the following:
    Compile the game code
    Compile the engine and asset pipeline
    Compile the Lumberyard Editor and tools
    Compile for Android devices


On the Required Software page, click Browse and specify the paths for the following:
    Android Native Development (NDK)
    Android Software Development Kit (SDK) Tools
    Java SE Development Kit (JDK)
Example 



Click Next until you reach the final page and close Lumberyard Setup Assistant.


Edit your system path so that it contains an entry to the directory where the ADB is installed. Usually, this is the platform-tools directory.
To edit your system path


In the Windows Control Panel, click System, Advanced system settings.


In the System Properties dialog box, click Environment Variables.


Under User variables, edit the PATH variable to add the directory where you installed the ADB. For example, this might be the SDK_root/platform-tools directory.

