Android Support
Follow this guide to create Android applications (apps) using Lumberyard. This guide shows you how to do the following:
 Configure the build tools to generate assets that your app loads.
 Build and debug code.
 Generate different types of apps for development or release.
Topics
 Prerequisites
 Quick Start: Running the Samples Project on Android Devices
 Anatomy of an Android Application
 Setting Up Your Environment
 Building Your Android Game
 Using the Virtual File System
 Running the Deployment Tool
 Additional Details for Android
 PAK Files
 Troubleshooting for Android
 Using a Samsung Device with Lumberyard
 Using the AWS Device Farm for Android Builds
Prerequisites
To build games for Android, meet the following requirements:
 You've installed Lumberyard on your computer. You should be familiar with Lumberyard Editor, the Shader Compiler, and Asset Processor.
 You're comfortable using a command line interface.
 You've built the PC code at least once.
 You've configured Visual Studio 2017 or Visual Studio 2019 (PC only) with the Mobile development with C workload for debugging.
 You've installed Android Studio and an Android SDK supporting API level 29 or later. For help setting up Android Studio and the minimum versions of the SDK, see Setting Up Your Environment
 You've configured  your Android device for development and connected it to your computer using a USB cable.
Topics
About Lumberyard Binaries
In this guide, you'll see references about the directory where the Lumberyard binaries are placed. These binaries are placed either by the installer or as a result of you rebuilding them. When you install Lumberyard, you'll see the following directories:
For PC
 dev/Bin64vc141 – Binaries generated with Visual Studio 2017
 dev/Bin64vc142 – Binaries generated with Visual Studio 2019
For Mac
 dev/BinMac64
If you use binaries generated with Visual Studio, continue to use the mentioned executable from that directory, such as Bin64vc141/AssetProcessor.exe.