Creating Physics Proxies for Static Meshes
A physics proxy is a mesh that encapsulates physics geometry, such as hit detection and the ability to collide. Physics proxies typically use primitive meshes or meshes with a low polygon count for better performance. Primitive meshes such as cubes, spheres, or capsules work best to ensure optimal physics performance.
You can create a physics proxy for your static mesh (.cgf file) with one of the following methods.
Note
These methods work with the legacy CryPhysics feature. To create physics proxies for the new PhysX system, see Export PhysX collider mesh assets.
Manually Creating Physics Proxies with the FBX Settings
To create a physics proxy modifier with the FBX Settings tool


In the Asset Browser, right-click the .fbx file to create a physics proxy for and then choose Edit Settings.


In the FBX Settings tool, on the Meshes tab, click Add Modifier and then choose CryPhysics Proxy.



Next to Physics meshes, click the  icon, select the meshes to use for the physics proxies and then click Select.


For this procedure, the recommended best practice is to prevent the selected physics mesh from also rendering as a static mesh. To do this, do the following:


For Select meshes, click the  icon.


Clear the mesh that you used for the physics proxy and click Select. This prevents the mesh that you selected for the physics proxy from also rendering as a static mesh.


Click Update.


When the File progress completes, click OK.


After you have assigned a physics proxy mesh to your static mesh, the static mesh is ready to display physics and collision behavior.
Automatically Creating Physics Proxies
Instead of manually creating a physics proxy, you can use soft naming conventions. 
To create physics proxies automatically

Add the _phys as a suffix to the static mesh .fbx file name. For example, rename filename.fbx to filename_phys.fbx. 

When you add the _phys suffix to the file name, Asset Processor automatically adds a new CryPhysics Proxy modifier.


In the Asset Browser, right-click the filename_phys.fbx file and then choose Edit Settings.


In the FBX Settings tool, on the Meshes tab, you can view this physics proxy modifier. 


Asset Processor also automatically deselects the mesh that is used as the physics proxy for the Select meshes parameter. This prevents the physics mesh from rendering as a static mesh.
Note
Only one physics proxy modifier is automatically created for each node that has a _phys suffix.