Create and animate characters
Most game projects require an animated character to move around in the environment. This may be a character that the player controls, or an AI-driven entity that interacts with the level.
Use the EMotion FX Animation Editor to animate characters in Amazon Lumberyard. To build a character, you associate one or more skinned models with an animation skeleton (built in a digital content creation tool like Maya). You then import the character into the Animation Editor and specify the animations that you want your character to have.
You can then blend animations, so that your character transitions from one animation to another, and specify the conditions when an animation occurs for a character. For example, you can specify that your character starts in an idle position. After several seconds, the character starts to walk, run, and then slow down again until the character returns to an idle position.
In the Animation Editor, you can preview the animations and blends between the animations for your characters. 
Lumberyard has the FBX Settings tool that converts static .fbx meshes, skeletons, skins, animations, and materials into Lumberyard assets. For more information, see Working with the FBX Settings Tool.
Note
If you are using Lumberyard 1.10 or earlier, you can use the legacy animation system (Geppetto and Mannequin) to accomplish these tasks. For more information, see Animation System in the Amazon Lumberyard Legacy Reference.
Topics
 Animation Editor Concepts and Terms
 Animation Editor User Interface
 Animation Editor File Types
 Getting Started with the Animation Editor
 Referencing External Anim Graphs
 Synchronizing Animation Graphs: Example
 Animation Editor Components
 Using Morph Targets to Deform Characters
 Customizing State Machine Routing with Sparse Motion Sets
 Animation Editor Nodes
 Using Tags with Animation Graphs
 Customizing EMotion FX Objects
 Creating Custom Motion Events and Parameters Using C
 Creating and Simulating a PhysX Ragdoll
 Creating Additive Animations
 Retargeting Motions
 Creating Simulated Objects
 Add Cloth Colliders to Characters
 Best Practices for Working with Skinned Meshes for Animation