Using Multiple UV Channels
You can use the FBX Settings tool to import multiple UV channels. That way, you can apply to your geometry a detail or blend layer map with UV channels that are independent of the diffuse, normal, and spec channels. With multiple UV channels, you can also apply an animated emittance glow that is independent of other texture maps on a mesh.

Topics
 Processing Multiple UV Channels
 Setting up Multiple UV Materials
 Using Independent Tiling
Processing Multiple UV Channels
When a new .fbx file is added to your project directory, Asset Processor automatically detects the file and imports it as a .cgf. If needed, you can use your DCC tool to rebuild the UV channels.
The FBX Settings tool follows these rules:
 If the .fbx file contains one UV channel on a mesh, that channel is automatically imported.
 If the .fbx file contains two UV channels on a mesh, both channels are automatically imported.
 If the .fbx file contains three or more UV channels on any of the meshes, the first two channels are automatically imported, and the remaining channels are ignored.
Setting up Multiple UV Materials
By default, the FBX Settings tool creates materials for your imported mesh. You must use the Shader Generation Parameters in the Material Editor to specify how the material should use the second UV channel.
To apply the second UV channel


In Lumberyard Editor, choose Tools and then Material Editor.


In the left pane, navigate to and select the material to use.


In the right pane, under Shader Generation Params, do the following to apply the second UV channel to one of these features:
    Blend Layer – Select Blendlayer and Use uv set 2 for blendlayer maps to apply the second UV channel to the Second Diffuse Map, Specular, Height, Bump, and Blending Map texture slots.
    Detail Map – Select Detail mapping and Use uv set 2 for detail map to apply the second UV channel to the Detail texture slot.
    Emittance Map – Select Use uv set 2 for emittance map to apply the second UV channel to the Emittance and Decal texture slots.


Using Independent Tiling
On the Second Diffuse Map, you can set independent values for the blend layer's texture inputs (tiling, rotation, and oscillation). Changes to these values don't affect the tiling, rotation, and oscillation values on the first Diffuse Map. In addition, these values aren't applied to the Blend Map. You can use the Blend Mask Tiling parameter under Shader Params to tile the Blend Map.
You can also set independent values for tiling, rotation, and oscillation for the Detail and Emittance map features.
To set independent values for the texture inputs


In Lumberyard Editor, choose Tools, Material Editor.


In the left pane, navigate to and select the material to use.


In the right pane, do the following:
    Under Texture Maps, modify the values for Tiling, Rotator, and Oscillator for your diffuse maps.
    Under Shader Params, modify the Blend Mask Tiling parameter for your blend map.

