In-Game Survey Cloud Gem Portal
You can use the In-Game Survey Cloud Gem Portal to create surveys for your game and test them in the InGameSurveySample. Your players can see active surveys and submit answers to them. You can view survey results and manage your surveys in the Cloud Gem Portal. 
Topics
 Prerequisites
 Creating a Survey
 Publishing a Survey
 Testing a Survey with the Sample Level
 Viewing and Downloading Survey Results
 Editing an Active Survey
 Modifying an Active Survey Schedule
 Cloning a Survey
 Ending a Survey
 Reopening a Survey
 In-Game Survey Cloud Gem Service API Reference
Prerequisites
This tutorial assumes that you have already performed the following steps to set up the Cloud Gem Portal (CGP) and the In-Game Survey Cloud Gem:
 You are using a Lumberyard Editor project that has the Cloud Gem In-Game Survey enabled.
 You have created a project stack and a deployment stack in Cloud Canvas Resource Manager.
 You have opened the Cloud Gem Portal. In Lumberyard Editor, choose AWS, Open Cloud Gem Portal.
If you don't meet the prerequisites, follow the steps in Enabling Gems to add Cloud Gem In-Game Survey in the Project Configurator.
Creating a Survey
When you create a survey in the Cloud Gem Portal, you add the questions that you want. For each question, you choose a question type and provide the text of the question. In the Cloud Gem Portal, you can see a preview of your survey and change the order of the questions.
To create a survey


In the Cloud Gem Portal, on the Cloud Gems page, choose In Game Survey.



On the Overview tab of the Cloud Gem Portal, choose Create New Survey.



In the Create New Survey dialog box, enter a name for the survey. Because the cloud gem automatically generates a unique ID for each survey, the name doesn't have to be unique.


On the Questions tab, choose Add New Question to add a question to the survey.



In the Add New Question dialog box, choose a question type: multiple choice with check boxes, multiple choice with radio buttons, slider, or text.



Provide the information for the question type that you selected. The information requested depends on the question type.
    For Title, enter the text of the question.
    For the multiple-choice questions, click Add Option to add a choice to the list of choices.
    For a Slider question, provide minimum and maximum values and labels for the values that indicate their meaning.
    For a text question, enter a number for Character Limit to specify the maximum number of characters that can be typed into the text box for the question.


After you add your questions, the Questions tab shows a preview of your survey.


To change the order of a question in the survey, drag the question to its new position. You can also use the icons on the right of each entry to delete or disable a question.

At this point you can use these options freely. Because they can affect existing results, use them with caution after you publish your survey.
Publishing a Survey
When you publish a survey, you schedule a start and end time and date. You can also choose to have the survey start immediately and/or have no specified end.
To publish a survey


To publish the survey, click Publish Survey at the bottom of the survey preview.



For Scheduling, specify a start and end time and date for the survey, or specify No Start and No End to make the survey ongoing. No Start and No End are selected by default.



Click Publish Survey. On the Questions tab, the survey status is now Active.



Choose Back to Survey List Page. The Overview tab shows the active survey, its scheduling, and the number of responses received.



Testing a Survey with the Sample Level
To test your survey you can use the in-game survey sample that is included with Lumberyard.
To test the survey


In Lumberyard Editor, run the InGameSurveySample level and provide some sample answers in the test interface. Use the Next and Back buttons provided to move between answers.






When you are finished, choose Submit.



When you choose Submit, you return to Lumberyard Editor viewport.

Press Esc to end the game. To provide more sample survey data, run the level a few more times to answer the survey questions and submit additional answers.

Viewing and Downloading Survey Results
In the Cloud Gem Portal, you can see aggregate and individual response data for your survey. For text questions, you can see the verbatim text of individual responses.
To view survey results

Return to the Cloud Gem Portal. On the Overview tab, click the refresh icon to update the results.


The value for Responses changes to show the number of surveys that were completed.


On the Overview tab, click the name of your survey, and then choose the Results tab.



Scroll down to view the results. Each nontext question has a table of aggregated results and a corresponding bar chart.


To see a pie chart view of the results, choose the pie chart  icon. To see the bar chart again, choose the bar chart  icon.



To view the answers for a text question, click View Answers.




To see a list of individual response entries, click the Individual Responses tab.



You can choose Export to CSV on the Individual Responses tab to export all submissions to a .csv file. This option is useful if you want to import the results into third-party tools for analysis.


In the list of submissions, choose an entry to see a set of answers from an individual respondent.




Editing an Active Survey
You can edit an active survey, but you should do so with caution. For example, if you change the order of options for a multiple-choice question, the answers already collected in the results tab will be incorrect.
To edit an active survey


On the Overview tab, click the survey name. Then on the Questions tab, click the edit  icon for the survey.



At the warning prompt, choose Edit Active Survey to continue.


To edit the survey, choose the Move , Delete, Edit, or Disable Question options from the menu for the questions that you want to change.



When you disable or delete a question, you are warned about the following:
    If you disable a question, it no longer appears in the survey and responses to it are not collected. Existing responses are preserved.
    If you delete a question from an active survey, you can no longer view any responses gathered for the question.
Modifying an Active Survey Schedule
Follow the steps here to modify the schedule for an active survey. For a nonactive (draft) survey, you specify a schedule when you publish the survey.
To edit a the schedule for an active survey


On the Overview tab, choose the active survey whose schedule you want to change.


On the Questions tab, choose Edit Scheduling from the menu for the survey.



In the Edit Activation Period dialog box, edit the schedule, and then choose Modify.



The new schedule appears on the Overview tab in the entry for the survey .
Cloning a Survey
You can clone a survey from another survey regardless of the original survey's status (Active, Scheduled, Draft, or Closed). After you clone a survey, you can edit it just as you would any other survey.
To clone a survey


On the Overview or Questions tab, choose Clone from the menu for the survey that you want to clone.



In the Clone Survey dialog box, enter a name for the cloned survey. The cloned survey appears on the Overview tab. Its status is Draft.



Click the cloned survey to edit it. Follow the same process as you would to edit and publish a new survey.


After you have more than one survey, you can filter them on the Overview tab by status: Active, Draft, and/or Scheduled.



Ending a Survey
When you end a survey, the survey and its results are available in your survey history.
To end a survey


On the Overview or Questions tab of the Cloud Gem Portal, choose End from the menu options for the survey. Then choose End Survey in the confirmation dialog box. The survey disappears from the Overview tab.


Click the History tab. The survey is present with the status of Closed.



On the History tab, you can perform the normal operations of deleting, editing, or cloning closed surveys from the menu options for each survey.
Reopening a Survey
You can choose a closed survey on the History tab and reopen the survey from the menu for the survey.
To reopen a survey


On the History tab, select the survey that you want to reopen.


On the Questions tab, choose Reopen from the menu options for the survey.



In the Edit Activation Period dialog box, configure the schedule for the survey that you are reopening. Then choose Modify.


To confirm that the survey is now active, click the Overview tab. The status for the survey is Active.

