Render to Texture

This feature is in preview release and is subject to change. 
You can use the Render to Texture component to render the scene from a specific camera to a texture. You can use this feature to create rear-view mirrors, security camera screens, and draw 3D models in the viewport. 
To enable this component, you must enable the Render to Texture gem. To enable gems, see Enabling Gems.

Topics
 Adding the Render to Texture Component in a Scene
 Adding a Render Target to a UI Element
 Render to Texture Properties
 EBus Request Bus Interface
 EBus Notification Bus Interface
 Known Limitations
Adding the Render to Texture Component in a Scene
Example
Entity (1) has a Camera component and a Render to Texture component. This entity faces a game object, entity (2). In entity (1), the Render to Texture component specifies a render target. A material file references that render target as its diffuse texture. The material is then added to entity (3), so that the render target appears in the viewport.  

To use the Render to Texture component


In Lumberyard Editor, create an entity in the viewport. For more information, see Creating an Entity.


In the Entity Inspector, click Add Component.


Select the Camera component, choose Be this camera, and then move the camera entity using the viewport camera controls to look at an object in your level.


In the Entity Inspector, click Add Component.


Select the Render to Texture component.


For Texture name, enter a name that starts with the $ character, such as $rendertarget. 
Note
The $ character tells Lumberyard that the texture will not be loaded from disk. If you don't specify the $ character, Lumberyard will try to locate the texture file from disk, which can impact performance.


To open the Material Editor, choose Tools, Material Editor or press M. 


Click the Add New Item icon to create a material, enter a name such as RenderToTexture, and then click Save.


In the Texture Maps section, for Diffuse, enter the Texture name that you specified, such as $rendertarget.


In the Asset Browser, navigate to primitive_plane.cgf, and then select and drag the file into the viewport.


Assign the material to the primitive plane entity. In the Mesh component, for the Material override property, specify the material file that you created, such as RenderToTexture.mtl.


The primitive plane entity now shows the texture from the Render to Texture component.
Adding a Render Target to a UI Element
You can also specify the render target in an Image component for a UI element. For example, you can add the render target to appear in a button or object that a user can select in a UI menu. 
For more information, see Visual Components.
Example
A camera entity (1) faces the Render to Texture entity (2), which has a Render to Texture component attached. The Texture name is $rendertarget.  

To add a render target to a UI Image component


Complete steps 1 to 6 in the previous procedure. See Adding the Render to Texture Component in a Scene.


In Lumberyard Editor, choose Tools, UI Editor.


In the UI Editor, create or open a UI canvas. 


Right-click the canvas and choose New, Element from Slice Library, Image.


In the Image component, for SpriteType, click the drop-down menu, and then select Render target.


For Render target name, enter the same texture name in the Render to Texture component, such as $rendertarget. 


The UI Image component displays the render target in the UI Editor.

Render to Texture Properties

The Render to Texture component has the following properties.




Name
Description




Camera
Entity with a Camera component attached to use as the view. If you specify an entity without a Camera component, only the position and orientation will be used from that entity.  If you don't specify an entity, this property defaults to the entity to which the Render To Texture component is attached.


Texture name
Name of the texture to which to render. Follow the Lumberyard convention of using a $ as the first character in the texture name. This is how Lumberyard denotes render targets.


Max FPS
Maximum frames per second at which this view updates.


Width
Width of the render texture, in pixels.


Height
Height of the render texture, in pixels.


Apply Gamma
Enables gamma application to the texture. If you want to use this texture with a material inside the main view, leave this property disabled, because gamma will be applied to the entire scene during post-processing.   As a best practice, if you are using render targets in the UI, clear the Apply Gamma property and don’t select the Render Target sRGB property in the UI Image component. However, if the texture appears too dark, you can set either property.


Alpha Mode
You can specify the following values: [See the AWS documentation website for more details] [See the AWS documentation website for more details]


Enable Ocean
Enables drawing the ocean in the render target.


Enable Terrain
Enables drawing terrain in the render target.


Enable Vegetation
Enables drawing vegetation in the render target.


Enable Shadows
Enables drawing shadows in the render target.


GSM LODs
Number of global shadow map levels of detail (LOD) to use for the render to texture scene. A value of -1 will use the current settings for the e_GsmLodsNum console variable.


GSM range
Global shadow map range to use for the render to texture scene.  A value of -1 will use the current settings for the e_GsmRange console variable.


GSM range step
Global shadow map range step to use for the render to texture scene.  A value of -1 will use the current settings for the e_GsmRangeStep console variable.


Antialiasing Mode
You can specify the following values: [See the AWS documentation website for more details]


Display Debug Image
Displays debug overlay images in Lumberyard Editor only.


Update in editor
Enables updating the render target outside of game mode while in Lumberyard Editor.



EBus Request Bus Interface
You can use the event bus (EBus) interface to communicate with other components in your game.
For more information, see Working with the Event Bus (EBus) system.




Request Name
Description
Parameter
Return
Scriptable




GetTextureResourceId
Gets the resource ID of the render target.  A value of -1 is an invalid render target.
None
integer
Yes


SetAlphaMode
Sets the alpha mode for the render target.
0 = Disabled 1 = Opaque 2 = Depth based
None
Yes


SetCamera
Sets the entity with a Camera component to use for rendering.
EntityID
None
Yes


SetEnabled
Enables or disables rendering to texture.
0 = Disable 1 = Enable
None
Yes


SetMaxFPS
Sets the maximum rate at which this render target updates, in frames per second.
FPS
None
Yes


SetWriteGamma
Enables or disables gamma application.
0 = Disable 1= Enable
None
Yes



EBus Notification Bus Interface
You can use the event bus (EBus) interface to communicate with other components in your game.
For more information, see Working with the Event Bus (EBus) system.




Request Name
Description
Parameter
Return
Scriptable




OnPreRenderToTexture
Called before rendering to texture begins for each Render to Texture component.
None
None
Yes


OnPostRenderToTexture
Called after rendering to texture is finished for each Render to Texture component.
None
None
Yes



Known Limitations
The Render to Texture component supports DirectX 11 for Windows.
Prevent Graphical Artifacts When Render to Texture is Active with the Following CVARs
Forces the object LOD to update at the beginning of the frame instead of the end of the previous frame. If you don't set this console variable, you may see LOD flickering.
For more information about setting console variables, see Using the Console Window.
e_LodForceUpdate=1
Disables precaching of the streaming system due to common large jumps in the camera position when the render to texture feature is active.
e_AutoPrecacheCameraJumpDist=0
Enables subpixel morphological antialiasing (SMAA) instead of temporal antialiasing (TAA).
r_AntialiasingMode=2
Disables volumetric fog.
e_volumetricFog=0
Disables multi-GPU mode.
r_MultiGPU=0
Disables sparse voxel octree global illumination (SVOGI gem).
e_GI=0
You might see flickering, black or blurry textures if the streaming system thrashes while the Render to Texture component is active. This can occur in a scene that uses a large amount of texture memory. 
To fix this, increase the value for r_TexturesStreamPoolSize, or set the Max FPS property to 0 so that the component updates each frame. This might help the streaming system balance texture priorities. 
Tip
To verify if the graphics artifacts are a result of streaming thrashing, set r_TexturesStreamingDebug to 2. This console variable shows the textures that are streamed in and the memory usage.
Unsupported Features in the Render Target
The following features are not supported for the Render to Texture component because they don't work with multiple cameras.
 TAA and SMAA
 Lens flares
 Sun shafts
 Volumetric fog
 CBuffer (constant buffer) occlusion (vis areas are supported)
 Motion blur
 Merged mesh vegetation
 Shadows cache