Debugging PhysX
The PhysX system has the following features that you can use to debug issues. 
Note
You must first enable the PhysX Debug gem. 
Topics
 PhysX Debug Console Variables
 Debugging with the ImGui Tool
 Debug Options in the PhysX Configuration
PhysX Debug Console Variables
Enter the following console variables to debug your PhysX issues. 
Sets your preferences for debugging. As a recommended best practice, enter this console variable command as your first step for debugging.
Example 
physx_Debug 1
You can specify the following values:
 1 – Enable debug visualizations. By default, this value enables the collision shapes and edges for your PhysX entities. 
 2 – Enables all configuration options. This enables all the available visualization options. 
 3 – Toggles the proximity based collider visualization. This value applies only to mesh colliders. See Physics asset colliders. 
 0 – Disables debug visualizations.
Toggles a visual culling box frame.
Example 
physx_CullingBox 1
Adjusts the culling box size to 100. Enter 0 to disable culling.
physx_CullingBoxSize 100
Connects to the PhysX Visual Debugger. You must have the PhysX Visual Debugger open to run this command. See Debugger Configuration.
physx_PvdConnect
Disconnects from the PhysX Visual Debugger. You must have the PhysX Visual Debugger open to run this command. See Debugger Configuration.
physx_PvdDisconnect
For more information, see Using the Console Window.
Debugging with the ImGui Tool
In game mode, you can configure the PhysX debug settings using the immediate mode graphical user interface (ImGui) tool.
Note
You must enable the ImGui gem to access this tool. For more information, see Enabling Gems.
To debug with the ImGui tool


Press CtrlG to enter gameplay mode.


Press the Home key to open the ImGui tool. The PhysX Debug menu appears under the Perspective viewport.


Click PhysX Debug. 
Example 



You can make the following changes.  



[See the AWS documentation website for more details]
Debug Options in the PhysX Configuration
You can also specify debug settings in the PhysX Configuration tool. See Debugger Configuration.