Using Group Selections and Reference Spaces
In the viewport, you can select multiple entities. This is called a group selection. You can use the following shortcuts for group selection.




Shortcut
Description




Click and drag in the viewport to create a box around entities.
Selects multiple entities.


Press and hold Ctrl and click and drag in the viewport.
Deselect multiple entities.


Press and hold Ctrl and click a target entity.
Adds or removes an entity from the selection. If you already selected a group of entities, this moves the manipulator to the center of the selected group.



When you select a group of entities, the Viewport Interaction Model follows the same model as selecting a single entity. For a group selection, the manipulator acts like a temporary parent entity. This means that the feature works the same for a single entity or a group of entities. By default, a manipulator defaults to the common parent of the group selection. If you select entities that don't share a common parent, the world is the parent. 
To use group selections and reference spaces


In the viewport, select multiple entities.


Press and hold Ctrl and click and drag the rotation manipulator.


Press Shift to toggle from local to parent space. The manipulator appears in the middle of your selection (becoming its parent).


Use the manipulator to modify the entities.
Example 


In the following example, three entities are selected. Because the manipulator defaults to the common parent of the group, the manipulator default to the world space. The entities move in relation to the parent (the manipulator). 



Press and hold Alt and click a target entity. This selects a reference space. 


Use the manipulator to modify the entities.
Example 


In the following example, a group of entities move in relation to the reference space.


Press and hold Ctrl, select the manipulator, and move the manipulator in the viewport. This creates a custom reference space.
Example 

In the following example, you can select a group of entities and move the manipulator in the viewport to create a custom reference space.


Select child entities of the same parent entity and use the manipulator to change them. When you select a group of entities that share the same parent, the manipulator defaults its orientation to the parent.
Example 

In the following example, two child entities (the tires) are selected. The manipulator rotates the child entities in relation to its parent (the car).


Press and hold Alt while modifying a group of selected entities. This enables you to control changes to the entity in local space. You can quickly iterate and modify your entities and view the changes in the viewport.
Example 

In the following example, you can press and hold Alt during translation. This toggles the entities that you selected to use local space.


Select child entities from different parent entities and press and hold Alt. You can modify multiple entities at the same time, even if they have different parents.
Example 

In the following example, child entities from different parents are selected. The manipulator modifies the child entities at the same time.


Press and release Alt to dynamically change the reference space.
Example 

In the following example, the manipulator changes the scale for the selected entities, switching from world to local space.
