Using the Infinite Ocean Component with Script Canvas
You can use the Infinite Ocean component with the Script Canvas editor to change the component parameters at run time, using a visual scripting workflow. In the following example, the Script Canvas script changes the size of the ocean waves over time.
To use the Infinite Ocean component with the Script Canvas editor


In Lumberyard Editor, create an entity and attach the Infinite Ocean component. Ensure that the component is positioned correctly in your level.


In the Entity Inspector, for Wave Size, enter 0. This creates a flat ocean, so you can see how the Script Canvas editor interacts with the component.


Click Add Component and then click the Script Canvas component.


In the Script Canvas component, click the icon to open the Script Canvas editor.


Select the entity with the Infinite Ocean component attached and drag it to the Script Canvas editor.


In the Script Canvas editor, save the file as oceanscript.scriptcanvas.


In the Node Palette, search for the On Entity Activated node and drag it to the canvas.


In the canvas, from the Ocean EntityRef node, drag Get to connect it to the Source pin of the Game Entity node.


In the Node Palette, search for the Timer node and drag it to the canvas.


In the canvas, from the Game Entity node, drag the Out pin to connect it to the Start pin of the Timer node.


In the Node Palette, search for the Sin node and drag it to the canvas. This node provides a value that goes up and down.


In the canvas, from the Timer node, drag the Out pin to connect it to the In pin of the Sin node.


Drag the Seconds pin to connect it to the Angle pin of the Sin node.
Note
The Sin node returns values that are –/. Negative numbers cause errors with the Wave Size parameter. Use the Add node to ensure that only positive values are returned.


In the Node Palette, search for the Add node and drag it to the canvas.


In the canvas, from the Sin node, drag the Out pin to connect it to the In pin of the Add node.


Drag the Angle pin and to connect it to the Value A pin of the Add node.


For the Add node, enter 1.0 for Value B. This shifts the sine wave from (-1.0 to 1.0) to (0.00 to 2.00).


In the Node Palette, search for the SetAnimationWavesSize node and drag it to the canvas.


In the canvas, from the Add node, drag the Out pin to connect it to the In pin of the SetAnimationWavesSize node.


Drag the Result pin to connect it to the Number:0 pin of the SetAnimationWavesSize node.


Your script should look like the following:



Save your script.


In the Entity Inspector, select the entity with the Script Canvas component attached. Click the browse (...) button and navigate to the oceanscript.scriptcanvas file. Select oceanscript.scriptcanvas and then click OK.


To start the game, press CtrlG. You can see the size of the ocean waves increase and decrease over time.

