Lumberyard Editors and Tools

This topic references tools and features that are legacy. If you want to use legacy tools in Lumberyard Editor, disable the CryEntity Removal gem using the Project Configurator or the command line. To learn more about legacy features, see the Lumberyard Legacy Reference.
Lumberyard provides the following suite of applications, editors, and tools for game development.
Animation Editor
Manages character animations, attachments, and physics simulations along with blendspace and animation layering.
Asset Browser
Displays all game assets available for use.
Asset Processor
Runs in the background when you launch Lumberyard Editor, monitoring input directories for changes in source files and automatically generating platform-specific game assets as they change.
Audio Controls Editor
Manages audio translation layer (ATL) controls and events for the audio system.
Geppetto (Legacy)
Manages character animations, attachments, and physics simulations along with blendspace and animation layering.
Console
Runs editor commands and lists available console variables.
Database View
Displays various object libraries such as entities, particles, and prefabs.
Entity Inspector
Displays the ID and name for component entity system objects.
Entity Outliner
Displays all component entities used for a level.
FBX Settings
Imports single static meshes and materials from FBX.
Layers
Organizes level data into discrete files.
Lens Flare Editor
Creates and manages camera lens flare effects.
Sun Trajectory Tool
Creates and manages dynamic sky lighting effects.
LOD Generator
Generates geometry and material level of detail (LOD).
Lumberyard Editor
Acts as the main workspace editor and game viewport; loads the Rollup Bar and console by default.
Lumberyard Setup Assistant
Ensures that you have the necessary runtime software and SDKs installed to successfully run Lumberyard.
Mannequin Editor
Manages the high-level character Mannequin system and includes the FragmentID Editor, Fragment Editor, Tag Definition Editor, Transition Editor, Sequence Previewer, Animation Database Editor, and Context Editor.
Material Editor
Applies final material setup, texture mapping, and shader parameters.
Measurement System Tool
Measures the length of segmented objects like roads, rivers, and paths.
Missing Asset Resolver
Searches for assets that have moved and references their new locations (legacy).
Gems System
Provides a library of prebuilt features that you can use to quickly start new projects or prototype ideas.
Particle Editor
Creates and simulates explosions, fire, sparks, and other visual effects.
Project Configurator
Standalone application used to tell the Waf build system which Gems to include in the game build.
Resource Compiler
Compresses and processes source game asset files and creates package files.
Script Canvas
Create game logic and behaviors with Lumberyard's new visual scripting environment.
Script Terminal
Runs various scripts in a terminal window.
Smart Objects Editor
Creates and manages smart objects, which can interact with other objects according to complex rules.
Substance Editor
Imports substance .sbsar files, edits material properties, and exports them as textures.
Terrain Editor
Generates terrain and sculpts terrain elements in your level.
Terrain Texture Layers
Creates and paints terrain texture layers in your level.
Time of Day Editor
Creates and manages day–night cycles and other dynamic sky effects.
Track View Editor
Creates and manages cinematic scenes and sequences; consists of the Track View and Curves Editor.
UI Editor
Creates, manages, and simulates user interface elements for your game, such as menus and heads-up displays (HUD).
Universal Remote Console
Used to connect to a remote instance of Lumberyard running on mobile devices.