Create macOS projects in Lumberyard

This feature is in preview release and is subject to change. 
You can use Lumberyard to build macOS applications. Lumberyard includes four macOS-supported sample projects that you can use to learn how to build assets for macOS games using the Asset Processor, build shaders using the remote shader compiler, and build and deploy macOS applications using the Lumberyard build tools.
Topics
 Prerequisites
 Setting Up Your Mac
 Building macOS Games
 Building Game Assets for macOS Games
 Building Shaders for macOS Games
 Running macOS Games
 macOS Debugging and Troubleshooting
 Creating a Project for Your macOS Games
Prerequisites
To build games for macOS or iOS, Lumberyard requires the following on your Mac: 
 Lumberyard Mac Support Files
 Xcode 11 or later
 macOS Mojave or later
Note
Lumberyard Editor requires Windows 7 or later to edit levels. You must have access to a PC with Lumberyard installed and be able to navigate and run commands from Terminal on your Mac.
Setting Up Your Mac
After you download and extract Lumberyard on your Mac, you must run Lumberyard Setup Assistant to install the third-party software that is required to run the game and compile the game code, engine, and asset pipeline.
To run Lumberyard Setup Assistant


Open the directory where you extracted Lumberyard and navigate to the /dev/Tools/LmbrSetup/Mac directory. Run the SetupAssistant.


Verify that the engine root path is correct.


On the Get started page, select the following and then click Next: 
    Run your game project
    Compile the game code
    Compile the engine and asset pipeline
    Compile the Lumberyard Editor and tools
Note
Lumberyard Editor is not supported on macOS. Selecting this option enables the ability to build the asset processor and resource compiler only.
    Compile for iOS devices
    (Optional) Compile for Android devices
Note
Select this option if you are developing for Android devices. You must have the Android SDK installed on your Mac.


Follow the instructions onscreen to complete the installations for any third-party software or SDKs that you need. For more information about using Lumberyard Setup Assistant, see Using Lumberyard Setup Assistant to Set Up Your Development Environment.


Open a command line window and navigate to your Lumberyard dev directory.


To initialize the build system, run the following command: sh lmbr_waf.sh configure


In the Finder, open the user_settings.options file (located in the /lumberyard/dev/_WAF_/ directory).


Verify that enabled_game_projects is set to your game project. For example, you can set this option to SamplesProject. If enabled_game_projects is not set correctly, edit and save the user_settings.options file and then run the configure command (sh lmbr_waf.sh configure) again.

