VR Xylophone Level
The VR Xylophone level shows you how to create basic VR gameplay with the Lumberyard component entity system. You use Script Canvas and Lua for VR device tracking, input events, and corresponding gameplay events.
For more information about installing the project that includes the VR Xylophone level, see Virtual Reality Samples Project.
VR Device Tracking
The VR Xylophone level uses the following:
 Input Configurator entity – Handles VR device tracking and input events.
 Input component – Defines two input events (FireLargeBox and FireSmallBox) that are initiated when you use the trigger button on the Oculus or Vive motion controllers.


 Lua Script component – Uses the vrdevice_tracking.lua script to track the movement and orientation of the VR controllers. Passes the transforms to specific controller entities.

VR Controllers and Projectiles
The VR Xylophone level uses a controller_right.slice for the right controller and a controller_left.slice for the left controller. You can find these slices in the lumberyard_version\dev\VirtualRealityProject\slices directory.
The right and left controllers are set up similarly, except that they spawn different projectiles and use different materials. The following image shows the entities for the left controller (green) and right controller (red), as well as their respective projectile entities.

The projectile entities are also set up similarly, except for size and color. They use the Rigid Body component, Primitive Collder and Box Shape components to collide and interact with the domino entities in a physically realistic way. Upon spawning, the projectile entities use the Script Canvas component to move forward.
You can find the projectile_largebox.slice and projectile_smallBox.slice files in the lumberyard_version\dev\VirtualRealityProject\slices directory.
The VR Xylophone level uses the following scripts:
 vrdevice_tracking Lua script – Matches the in-game movement and orientation of the controller entities with the physical controllers.
 Script Canvas graph – Spawns a projectile and plays a spawning sound when an input event is triggered. This graph is on the controller entity.
   In the Input Handler node, the Event Name is the event that is defined in the Input Configurator.
   The Audio Trigger component specifies the sound to play.
   The Spawner component specifies the dynamic slice to spawn.

Domino Tiles
The projectile entities interact with the domino tiles. These tiles are instances of eight slices, each differing in color, letter, and sound pitch. The sound pitch occurs when the tile's trigger makes contact with another collider.
Each domino tile slice has a child entity with the Trigger Area and Lua Script components. The Trigger Area component triggers an event to play the sound that's specified in the triggerarea_play_sound.lua script.
