Commenting Nodes
You can add comments to your script to describe how it works. 
Contents
 Adding Comment Nodes
 Adding Block Comment Nodes
 Changing Comment Node Font Settings
Adding Comment Nodes
A Comment node is a floating block of text that you can move in the Script Canvas editor canvas.
To add a Comment node to your script


In the Script Canvas editor, do one of the following:
    In the Node Palette, click Utilities and then click and drag the Comment node to your script.
    Right-click your script and choose Add Comment.


Double-click the node and then enter a description.



To delete a Comment node, do one of the following:
    Select the node and press Delete.
    Right-click the node and choose Delete Node.


Adding Block Comment Nodes
The Block Comment node is similar to the Comment node, except that you can also use block comments to contain other nodes and organize your script into sections. You can add other nodes to the Block Comment node to tag a specific region or add colors to organize the different parts of your script.
To add a Block Comment node to your script


In the Script Canvas editor, do one of the following:
    In the Node Palette, click Utilities and then drag the Block Comment node to your script.
    Right-click the canvas and choose Create Block Comment.
    If you have a group of nodes together, right-click the canvas and choose Create Block Comment for Selection. 


For the Block Comment node, double-click the header, and then enter a description.


Drag the corners of the node to resize it. 


Drag your nodes into the Block Comment node or expand the Block Comment node to contain them.
Example 


The following Block Comment node contains other nodes as a group.



To move your nodes together, drag the Block Comment node header. All nodes inside the Block Comment node move together.


To delete the node, do one of the following:
    Select the Block Comment node header and press Delete.
    Right-click the header for the Block Comment node and choose Delete Node.
Note
Nodes inside the Block Comment node are not deleted.


Changing Comment Node Font Settings
You can change the font settings in comment nodes to label and organize your script. Font settings apply to the entire comment; you cannot specify individual sections of the comment.
To change the font settings for comment nodes


In the Script Canvas editor, choose View, Node Inspector.


Do one of the following: 
    For a Comment node, select the node.
    For a Block Comment node, select the header. 


In the Node Inspector, you can make the following changes:

    Comment – Type the comment for the node.
    Font Color – Type a value or use the Color Picker to select a color.
    Font Family – Type a font family name, such as Arial.
    Pixel Size – Specify the font size.
    Weight – Specify the font weight, such as bold.
    Style – Specify the font style, such as italics.
    Vertical Alignment – Specify the vertical alignment of the comment, such as bottom.
    Horizontal Alignment – Specify the horizontal alignment of the comment, such as center.
    For Block Comment Frame – Type a value or use the Color Picker to select a color.

