Common.Cloud Shader
The Common.Cloud shader is used exclusively for common clouds. The shader uses per-vertex gradient lighting and takes the sun, cloud, and viewer positions into account. Gradient lighting interpolates between the bright color, which is calculated from the HDR Sun color multiplier, and the dark color, which is calculated from the HDR Sky color multiplier. In addition, rim lighting is also applied on a per-pixel basis to capture the effects of light scattering when looking at clouds that are lit by the sun from behind.
Common clouds use soft clipping to gradually fade in and out at the near and far clipping plane. This prevents rendering artifacts in the far distance and flickering due to cloud particles entering and leaving the view cone near the camera during a flythrough. Additionally, clouds blend softly against opaque scene geometry.
The default Diffuse texture map for this shader is cumulus_01.dds, which contains images of cloud particles.


Shader Parameters
CloudAngularAtten
Defines the angular attenuation factor for rim lighting. The smaller the value, the more widespread the rim lighting effect for clouds (partially) covering the sun becomes from the viewer's point of view.
Valid values: 1 to 100
Default value: 30 
Example
The following examples show a cloud with angular attenuation set to 20 and 100.  

CloudBacklightingScale
Defines how much to scale rim lighting. Higher values increase the glow of cloud edges.
Valid values: 0 to 5
Default value: 1 
Example
The following examples show a cloud with backlighting scale set to 0 and 5.  

CloudOutlineSlope
Defines the slope of the ramp function used to blend in rim lighting. Higher values create harder transitions.
Valid values: 0 to 20
Default value: 1 
Example
The following examples show a cloud with outline slope set to 0 and 20.  

CloudOutlineThreshold
Defines the cloud's opacity threshold value below which the rim lighting effect is applied. Higher thresholds cause the rim lighting to grow inward.
Valid values: 0.0 to 1.0
Default value: 0.4 
Example
The following examples show a cloud with outline threshold set to 0.0 and 1.0.  

HDRBrightnessAdjust
Controls brightness of clouds in high dynamic range (HDR) image format (relative to low dynamic range (LDR) image format).
Default value: 1