3DSMax – Fur Previsualization

To visualize fur on a mesh


Ensure that your renderer is set to Legacy Direct3D:


Open the Preference Settings dialog. To do this, navigate to Customize, Preferences.


Select the Viewports tab. Under Display Drivers, view the currently installed driver.



If it does not display Direct3D 9.0, click Choose Driver. From the drop-down menu, choose Legacy Direct3D. Click OK.



Open the Material Editor. To do this, navigate to Rendering, Material Editor, Compact Material Editor.


Select a material that you want to set for fur, and click the button to the right of the submaterial drop-down menu (the button might display “Standard”).


Choose DirectX Shader, and choose to discard the old material.



Click in filename box. Navigate to your Lumberyard install folder, and select dev\Tools\maxscript\fx\Fur.fx.



In the Fur.cgfx Parameters section, specify the following, at a minimum:
    Enable Fur Combing (disabled/unselected if you haven't prepared your mesh with vertex colors for fur combing)
    Use Base Fur Diffuse Map (unselected/disabled)
    Color Texture
    Fur Heightmap


In the viewport, select your mesh or sub-mesh. In the Material Editor, click Assign Material to Selection.



To apply vertex colors on a mesh


With your object selected, go to the Modify panel. From the Modifier List drop-down menu, select VertexPaint.



To adjust fur combing, set the Channel to Vertex Color.


To adjust fur length scaling, set the Channel to Vertex Alpha.


For fur combing:


Click on the color swatch below the eraser button, and select the preferred direction.


Use the Paint or Paint All button to apply the combing direction to the mesh.
Note
The default vertex color for meshes is white, so you may want to begin by using Painting All with RGB(128, 128, 128). This way, you can work from a default "no combing" state.


For fur length scaling:


Click on the color swatch below the eraser button, and set the preferred length scale in the red channel.


Use the Paint or Paint All button to apply the length scaling to the mesh.

