Matching the Transform
Instead of manually copying values from one entity's position to another, you can use the ditto feature to share an entity's transform data from one entity to another. This feature enables you to duplicate the same transform data for your entities. For example, to make your child entities face the same direction, you can select the entities and use the ditto feature to apply the change to the entities at once.
To match a transform using the ditto feature


In the viewport, select an entity.


Press and hold Ctrl and press the middle mouse button on a target entity. After the target is selected, the current selection transform matches that of the target.
Example 


In the following example, the ditto feature shares an entity's transform with another entity. Both entities have the same value.

The following is a shortcut to use the ditto feature.  

[See the AWS documentation website for more details]
Ditto a Group Selection
You can use the ditto feature for a group of entities. This makes it easier for you to modify multiple entities at once.
To match the transform for a group of entities


In the viewport, select a group of entities.


Press and hold Ctrl and press the middle mouse button to match an entity's transform data to the group manipulator.
Example 


In the following example, you can select entities (a group selection of tires) and use the ditto feature to match a target entity (the car).

See the following shortcut to use the ditto feature.  

[See the AWS documentation website for more details]
Ditto a Group Selection to Local Space
You can ditto a group of entities to local space so that you can modify entities in local space in relation to another entity. 
To ditto a group selection to local space


In the viewport, select a group of entities.


Press and hold Alt and press the middle mouse button to select a target entity. This sets the local space of each entity in the selected group to the target entity that you specified.
Example 


In the following example, select a group of entities and use the ditto feature to set them to the local space of the target entity.

See the following shortcut to use the ditto feature for a group selection.  

[See the AWS documentation website for more details]