Sharing feedback
Other people in your organization can request feedback from you on specific files. You can add feedback to a file, or add a message about the entire file. You can also reply to feedback, give private feedback, and decline to give feedback.
You can see the files for which your feedback has been requested in your Awaiting my Feedback list. To request feedback, you can share your document with other people in your organization. For more information, see Sharing files and folders.
Topics
 Adding feedback
 Requesting the ability to add feedback
 Declining feedback
 Disabling feedback and muting notifications
Adding feedback
You can add overall feedback that applies to the entire file, or add feedback on a specific portion of a file. 
To add overall feedback


Open the file in Amazon WorkDocs.


Choose Feedback, Add Overall Feedback. 


Type your feedback and choose Publish.


To add feedback for a portion of a file


Open the file in Amazon WorkDocs.


Select the portion of the file on which to give feedback, and enter your feedback.


After you have entered your feedback, choose Post. This saves your feedback as a draft. You can edit or delete any of your feedback by choosing Feedback.


To reply to feedback


Open the file and choose Feedback.


Under the comment to which to reply, choose Reply.


Type your reply and choose Reply.


To add private feedback
Private comments are only visible to the file owner and co-owners. They cannot be seen by contributors, unless you make a private reply to a contributor comment.
 Enter your comment, select Private, then post your comment.
To notify a user in feedback
You can notify a specific user in a comment to bring a user's attention to a specific comment. The user receives an email notification that includes the comment.


In the comment box, choose the @ button and then choose the user name from the list that appears. Or, type @ followed by the user name (for example, @username).


The user specified automatically receives an email that includes your comment and a link to view the file.


To format feedback


To bold a word, add ** before and after the word. (For example, **word**)


To italicize a word, add _ before and after the word. (For example, _word_)


To strikethrough a word, add \~\~ before and after the word. (For example, \~\~word\~\~)


To create a new line, enter Shift  Enter.


To filter feedback
Filter feedback to view the comments that are most important to you.


Open the file in Amazon WorkDocs.


Choose Feedback. For Filters, choose Add filters.


To view specific feedback, choose from any of the following filters:
    Version
    User
    Show: Select the check box next to one or more of the following options:

Draft comments
Published comments
Resolved comments
Unresolved comments
Comments that mention me



Choose Apply to apply the selected filters.


To resolve feedback
You can hide comments from view by resolving them.


Open the file in Amazon WorkDocs.


Choose Feedback.


Under each comment to hide, choose Resolve.


To show a resolved comment again, filter by Resolved comments and choose Unresolve under the comment.
Requesting the ability to add feedback
If you have viewer access to a file and can’t give feedback, you can request contributor access in order to add feedback.
To request contributor access


Open the file or folder in Amazon WorkDocs.


Copy the file or folder URL to your clipboard.


Choose Tasks.


For New task, choose Access request.


For Access request, paste the file or folder URL.


Choose Send.


The file owner is notified of your request and can grant you access. When access is granted, you are notified that the file has been shared with you.
Declining feedback
You can decline to give feedback on any file for which you have received a feedback request. When you decline feedback, the file is removed from your Awaiting my feedback list, and you can no longer view the file.
To decline feedback


In the web client, choose Collaborate, Awaiting my feedback.


Select the file, choose Feedback, Decline feedback.


You can also remove a file from the Awaiting my feedback list without declining feedback.
To remove a file from your Awaiting my feedback folder


In the web client, choose Collaborate, Awaiting my feedback.


Select the file, choose Feedback, Delete.


Disabling feedback and muting notifications
If you are the owner or co-owner of a file, you can disable feedback to prevent additional comments.
To disable feedback


Select or open the file in Amazon WorkDocs.


For Actions, choose Settings and clear Allow feedback.


Mute notifications to stop receiving emails when a file receives feedback.
To turn off email notifications


Open the file in Amazon WorkDocs.


For Actions, choose Settings and select Mute notifications.

