Working with Amazon S3 objects by using the AWS Toolkit for JetBrains
Objects are the fundamental entities stored in Amazon S3. Objects consist of object data and metadata.
Topics
 Viewing an object in an Amazon S3 bucket
 Opening an object in the IDE
 Uploading an object
 Downloading an object
 Deleting an object
Viewing an object in an Amazon S3 bucket
This procedure opens the S3 Bucket Viewer. You can use it to view, upload, download, and delete objects grouped by folders in an Amazon S3 bucket.


Open AWS Explorer, if it isn't already open.


To view a bucket's objects, do one of the following:
    Double-click the name of the bucket.
    Right-click the name of the bucket, and then choose View Bucket.


The S3 Bucket Viewer displays information about the bucket's name, Amazon Resource Name (ARN), and creation date. The objects and folders in the bucket are available in the pane beneath.
Opening an object in the IDE
If the object in an Amazon S3 bucket is a file type recognized by the IDE, you can download a read-only copy and open it in the IDE.


To find an object to download, open the S3 Bucket Viewer (see Viewing an object in an Amazon S3 bucket).


Double-click the name of the object.


The file opens in the default IDE window for that file type.
Uploading an object


To find the folder you want to upload objects to, open the S3 Bucket Viewer (see Viewing an object in an Amazon S3 bucket).


Right-click the folder, and then choose Upload.


In the dialog box, select the files to upload.
Note
You can upload multiple files at once. You can't upload directories.


Choose OK.


Downloading an object


To find a folder to download objects from, open the S3 Bucket Viewer (see Viewing an object in an Amazon S3 bucket).


Choose a folder to display its objects.


Right-click an object, and then choose Download.


In the dialog box, select the download location.
Note
If you're downloading multiple files, ensure you select the path name instead of the folder. You can't download directories.


Choose OK.
Note
If a file already exists in the download location, you can overwrite it or leave it in place by skipping the download.


Deleting an object


To find the object to delete, open the S3 Bucket Viewer (see Viewing an object in an Amazon S3 bucket).


After you select the object, delete it by doing one of the following:
    Press Delete.
    Right-click, and then choose Delete.
Note
You can select and delete multiple objects at once.


To confirm the deletion, choose Delete.

