Add stacks to a stack set
When you create a stack set, you can create the stacks for that stack set. AWS CloudFormation also enables you to add more stacks, for additional accounts and Regions, at any point after the stack set is created. You can add stack instances using either the AWS CloudFormation console, or by using AWS CloudFormation commands in the AWS CLI. In this procedure, we will add stack instances for an additional Region to the stack set we created in Create a stack set.
Topics
 Add stack instances to your stack set using the AWS Management Console
 Add stack instances to your stack set using the AWS CLI
Add stack instances to your stack set using the AWS Management Console


Open the AWS CloudFormation console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation.


From the navigation pane, choose StackSets. On the StackSets page, select the stack set that you created in Create a stack set.


With the stack set selected, choose Add new stacks to StackSet from the Actions menu.



On the Set deployment options page, provide the accounts and Regions into which you want to add stacks for your stack set.


AWS CloudFormation will deploy stacks in the specified accounts within the first Region, then moves on to the next, and so on, as long as a Region's deployment failures do not exceed a specified failure tolerance.


[Self-managed permissions] For Deployment targets, choose Deploy stacks in accounts. Paste your target account numbers in the text box, separating multiple numbers with commas.
[Service-managed permissions] For Deployment targets, choose the accounts in your organization to deploy to.
   Choose Deploy to organization to deploy to all accounts in your organization.

   Choose Deploy to organizational units (OUs) to deploy to all accounts in specific OUs. Choose Add another OU, and then paste the target OU ID in the text box. Repeat for each new target OU. StackSets also targets any child OUs of your selected targets.

Note
If you add an OU that your stack set already targets, StackSets creates new stack instances in any accounts in the OU that don't already have stack instances from your stack set (for example, accounts that were added to the OU after your stack set was created and with automatic deployments disabled).


For Deployment regions, choose US West (N. California). You will be creating new stacks, in the US West (N. California) Region, for the targets you've specified.
If you add multiple Regions, the order of the Regions under Specify regions determines their deployment order.


For Deployment options: 


For Maximum concurrent accounts, keep the default values of Number and 1.
This means that AWS CloudFormation deploys your stack in only one account at one time.
       For Failure tolerance, keep the defaults of Number and 0.
This means that a maximum of one stack deployment can fail in one of your specified Regions before AWS CloudFormation stops deployment in the current Region, and cancels deployment in remaining Regions. If you want CloudFormation to be more failure tolerant, increase this value.


Choose Next.


On the Specify Overrides page, leave the property values as specified. You won't be overriding any property values for the stacks you're going to create. Choose Next.


On the Review page, review your choices and your stack set's properties. To make changes, choose Edit in the area in which you want to change properties. Before you can create the new stacks, you must fill the check box in the Capabilities area to acknowledge that some of the resources that you are creating with the stack set might require new IAM resources and permissions. For more information about potentially required permissions, see Acknowledging IAM resources in AWS CloudFormation templates in this guide. When you are are ready to create your stack instances, choose Submit.



AWS CloudFormation starts creating your stack instances. View the progress and status of the creation of the stack instances in your stack set in the stack set details page that opens when you choose Submit. When complete, your new stack instances should be listed on the Stack instances tab.



Add stack instances to your stack set using the AWS CLI


Open the AWS CLI.


Run the create-stack-instances command.


[Self-managed permissions] Provide the accounts IDs for which you want to create stack instances.
aws cloudformation create-stack-instances --stack-set-name my-awsconfig-stackset --accounts '["account_id"]' --regions '["eu-west-1", "us-west-2"]'
[Service-managed permissions] Provide the organization (root) ID or OU IDs for which you want to create stack instances. In this example, we specify OUs with ou-rcuk-1x5j1lwo and ou-rcuk-slr5lh0a IDs.
aws cloudformation create-stack-instances --stack-set-name StackSet-myApp --deployment-targets OrganizationalUnitIds='["ou-rcuk-r1qi0wl7"]' --regions '["eu-west-1", "us-west-2"]'
Note
If you add an OU that your stack set already targets, StackSets creates new stack instances in any accounts in the OU that don't already have stack instances from your stack set (for example, accounts that were added to the OU after your stack set was created and with automatic deployments disabled).