Administering your SiteWise Monitor portals
You might need to update portal details, change administrators, or add users to your portals. This section explains how you can complete these basic administrative tasks for your SiteWise Monitor portals.


Sign in to the AWS IoT SiteWise console.


In the navigation pane, choose Monitor, Portals.



Choose a portal, and then choose View details (or choose the portal's Name).


You can perform any of the following administrative tasks:
    Changing a portal's name, description, branding, support email, and permissions
    Adding or removing portal administrators
    Sending email invitations to portal administrators
    Adding or removing portal users
    Deleting a portal


For information about how to create a portal, see Getting started with AWS IoT SiteWise Monitor.
Changing a portal's name, description, branding, support email, and permissions
You can change a portal's name, description, branding, support email, and permissions.


On the portal details page, in the Portal details section, choose Edit.



Update the Name, Description, Portal branding, Support contact email, or Permissions.


When you're finished, choose Save.


Adding or removing portal administrators
In a few steps, you can add or remove users as administrators for a portal.

To add portal administrators


On the portal details page, in the Portal administrators section, choose Assign users.


On the Assign administrators page, select the check boxes for the users to add to the portal as administrators.
Note
If you use AWS SSO as your identity store, and you're signed in to your AWS Organizations master account, you can choose Create user to create an AWS SSO user. AWS SSO sends the new user an email for them to set their password. You can then assign the user to the portal as an administrator. For more information, see Manage identities in AWS SSO.



Choose Assign administrators.


To remove portal administrators
 On the portal details page, in the Portal administrators section, select the check box for each user to remove, and then choose Remove from portal.
Note
Leaving a portal without a portal administrator is not recommended.
Sending email invitations to portal administrators
You can send email invitations to portal administrators through their AWS SSO email address.


On the portal details page, in the Portal administrators section, select the check boxes for the portal administrators.



Choose Send invitations. Your email client opens, and an invitation is populated in the message body, as shown in the following example.



You can customize the email before you send it to your portal administrators.
Adding or removing portal users
You choose which users have access to your portals. Portal users appear in the list of users within a SiteWise Monitor portal. From this list, portal administrators can add project owners, and project owners can add project viewers.
Note
Your portal administrators and portal users might contact you through a portal's support email if they need you to add or remove a user.
To add portal users


On the portal details page, in the Portal users section, choose Assign users.


On the Assign users page, select the check box for the users to add to the portal.
Note
If you use AWS SSO as your identity store, and you're signed in to your AWS Organizations master account, you can choose Create user to create an AWS SSO user. AWS SSO sends the new user an email for them to set their password. You can then assign the user to the portal as a user. For more information, see Manage identities in AWS SSO.



Choose Assign users.


To remove portal users
 On the portal details page, in the Portal users section, select the check box for the users to remove from the portal, and then choose Remove from portal.
Deleting a portal
You might delete a portal if you created it for testing purposes or if you created a duplicate of a portal that already exists.
Note
You must first manually delete all dashboards and projects in a portal before you can delete a portal. For more information, see Deleting projects and Deleting dashboards in the SiteWise Monitor Application Guide.


On the portal details page, choose Delete.
Important
When you delete a portal, you lose all projects that the portal contains, and all dashboards in each project. This action can't be undone. Your asset data isn't affected.



In the Delete portals dialog box, choose Remove admins and users.


You must remove the administrators and users from a portal before you can delete it. If your portal doesn't have administrators or users, the button doesn't appear, and you can skip to the next step.



If you're sure that you want to delete the entire portal, enter delete in the field to confirm deletion.



Choose Delete.

