Deleting objects and buckets
When you no longer need an object or a bucket, we recommend that you delete them to prevent further charges. If you completed this getting started walkthrough as a learning exercise and do not plan to use your bucket or objects, we recommend that you delete your bucket so that charges no longer accrue. Before you delete your bucket, you must empty the bucket or delete the objects in the bucket. After you delete your objects and bucket, they are no longer available.
If you want to continue to use the same bucket name, we recommend that you delete the objects or empty the bucket but do not delete the bucket. After you delete a bucket, the name becomes available to reuse. However, another account might create a bucket with the same name before you have a chance to reuse it. 
Topics
 Emptying your bucket
 Deleting an object
 Deleting your bucket
Emptying your bucket
If you plan to delete your bucket, you must first empty your bucket, which deletes all the objects in the bucket. 
To empty a bucket


In the Buckets list, select the bucket that you want to empty, and then choose Empty.


To confirm that you want to empty the bucket and delete all the objects in it, in Empty bucket, enter the name of the bucket.
Important
Emptying the bucket cannot be undone. Objects added to the bucket while the empty bucket action is in progress will be deleted.


To empty the bucket and delete all the objects in it, and choose Empty.


An Empty bucket: Status page opens that you can use to review a summary of failed and successful object deletions.

To return to your bucket list, choose Exit.

Deleting an object
If you want to choose which objects you delete without emptying all the objects from your bucket, you can delete an object. 


In the Buckets list, choose the name of the bucket that you want to delete an object from.


In the Name list, select the check box for the object that you want to delete.


Choose Actions, and then choose Delete.


In the Delete objects dialog box, verify the name of the object, and choose Delete.


Deleting your bucket
After you empty your bucket or delete all the objects from your bucket, you can delete your bucket.


To delete a bucket, in the Buckets list, select the bucket.


Choose Delete.


To confirm deletion, in Delete bucket, enter the name of the bucket.
Important
Deleting a bucket cannot be undone. Bucket names are unique. If you delete your bucket, another AWS user can use the name. If you want to continue to use the same bucket name, don't delete your bucket. Instead, empty and keep the bucket. 


To delete your bucket, choose Delete bucket.


For more information about using Amazon S3, see Where do I go from here?