Create a listener for your Network Load Balancer
A listener is a process that checks for connection requests. You define a listener when you create your load balancer, and you can add listeners to your load balancer at any time.
Prerequisites

You must specify a target group for the listener rule. For more information, see Create a target group for your Network Load Balancer.
You must specify an SSL certificate for a TLS listener. The load balancer uses the certificate to terminate the connection and decrypt requests from clients before routing them to targets. For more information, see Server certificates.

Add a listener
You configure a listener with a protocol and a port for connections from clients to the load balancer, and a target group for the default listener rule. For more information, see Listener configuration.
To add a listener using the console


Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.


In the navigation pane, under LOAD BALANCING, choose Load Balancers.


Select the load balancer and choose Listeners.


Choose Add listener.


For Protocol : port, choose TCP, UDP, TCP_UDP, or TLS. Keep the default port or type a different port.


[TLS listeners] For ALPN policy, choose a policy to enable ALPN or choose None to disable ALPN. For more information, see ALPN policies.


For Default actions, choose Add action, Forward to and then choose an available target group.


[TLS listeners] For Security policy, we recommend that you keep the default security policy.


[TLS listeners] For Default SSL certificate, do one of the following:
    If you created or imported a certificate using AWS Certificate Manager, choose From ACM and choose the certificate.
    If you uploaded a certificate using IAM, choose From IAM and choose the certificate.


Choose Save.


[TLS listeners] To add an optional certificate list for use with the SNI protocol, see Add certificates to the certificate list.


To add a listener using the AWS CLI
Use the create-listener command to create the listener.