
This guide is for the Snowball Edge. If you are looking for documentation for the Snowball, see the AWS Snowball User Guide.

Managing Your Devices
You use the AWS OpsHub to manage your Snow Family Devices. On the Device details page, you can perform the same the tasks that you do using the AWS CLI, including changing the alias of your device, rebooting the device, and checking for updates.
Topics
 Rebooting Your Device
 Editing Your Device Alias
 Updating Your Device
 Managing Profiles
Rebooting Your Device
Follow these steps to use AWS OpsHub to reboot your Snow device.
Important
We highly recommend that you suspend all activities on the device before you reboot the device. Rebooting a device stops running instances, interrupts any writing to Amazon S3 buckets on the device, and stops any write operations from the file interface without clearing the cache.
To reboot a device


On the AWS OpsHub dashboard, find your device under Devices. Then choose the device to open the device details page. 


Choose the Reboot device tab, and in the dialog box that appears, choose Reboot device. Your device starts to reboot.


Editing Your Device Alias
Use these steps to edit your device alias using AWS OpsHub.
To edit your device's alias


On the AWS OpsHub dashboard, find your device under Devices. Choose the device to open the device details page. 


Choose the Edit device alias tab.


For Device alias, enter a new name, and choose Save alias.


Updating Your Device
Follow these steps to use AWS OpsHub to update your Snow device.
To update your device


On the AWS OpsHub dashboard, find your device under Devices. Choose the device to open the device details page. 


Choose the Check for updates tab.


The Check for updates page displays the current software version on your device and the latest software version, if there is one.

If there is an update, choose Update. Otherwise, choose Close.

Managing Profiles
A profile is a persistent storage of your credentials on your local file system. You can create a profile when you first unlock your device, or you can create one after your device is running. You can create new profiles, edit existing profiles, or delete them.
To create a profile


In the upper-right corner of the application, choose your name, and then choose Manage profile.


On the Manage profiles page, choose Create profile. You create a profile for each device. 


If your device is unlocked, see Unlocking a Device for instructions. 


Provide the name for the profile, the IP address of your device, and the unlock code.


Choose Upload, upload the manifest, and then choose Create device. 


You now have a new profile for your device. You use this profile to log in to the device.
To edit a profile

In the upper-right corner of the application, choose your name, and then choose Manage profile.

All your profiles appear on the page.


On the Manage profiles page, choose the profile that you want to edit. 


On the next page, choose Edit. Make the changes that you want for your device, and choose Save device.


To delete a profile

In the upper-right corner of the application, choose your name, and then choose Manage profile.

All your profiles appear on the page.

Choose the profile that you want to delete, and choose Delete profile.
