
This guide is for the Snowball Edge. If you are looking for documentation for the Snowball, see the AWS Snowball User Guide.

Set Up Local Users
Following are steps to set up a local administrator on your AWS Snowball Edge device.

Retrieve your root user credentials

Use the snowballEdge list-access-keys and snowballEdge get-secret-access-key to get your local credentials. For more information, see Getting Credentials.

Configure the root user credential using aws configure

Supply the AWS Access Key ID, AWS Secret Access Key, and Default region name. The region name must be snowball. Optionally supply a Default output format. For more information about configuring the AWS CLI, see Configuring the AWS CLI in the AWS Command Line Interface User Guide.

Create one or more local users on your device

Use the create-user command to add users to your device.
aws iam create-user --endpoint endpointIPaddress --profile ProfileID --region snow --user-name UserName
After you add users according to your business needs, you can store your AWS root credentials in a safe location and only use them for account and service management tasks. For more information about creating IAM users, see Creating an IAM User in Your AWS Account in the IAM User Guide.

Create an access key for your user

Use the create-access-key command to create an access key for your user.
aws iam create-access-key --endpoint endpointIPaddress --profile ProfileID --region snow --user-name UserName
Save the access key information to a file and distribute to your users.

Create an access policy

You might want different users to have different levels of access to functionality on your device. The following example creates a policy document named s3-only-policy and attaches it to a user.
cat s3-only-policy
   {
     "Version": "2012-10-17",
     "Statement": [
       {
         "Effect": "Allow",
         "Action": "s3:*",
         "Resource": "*"
       }
     ]
   }
aws iam create-policy --endpoint endpointIPaddress --profile ProfileID --region snow --policy-name s3-only-policy --policy-document file://s3-only-policy

Attach the policy to your user

Use the attach-user-policy to attach the s3-only-policy to a user.
`aws iam attach-user-policy --endpoint endpointIPaddress --profile ProfileID --region snow --user-name UserName --policy-arn arn:aws:iam::AccountID:UserName`

For more information about using IAM locally, see Using IAM Locally.
Next: Use the Snowball Edge 