Creating a connection
You can create a standalone connection, or you can create a connection to associate with a LAG in your account. If you associate a connection with a LAG, it's created with the same port speed and location that is specified in the LAG.
If you do not have equipment at an AWS Direct Connect location, first contact an AWS Direct Connect Partner at the AWS Direct Connect Partner Program. For more information, see APN Partners Supporting AWS Direct Connect.
To create a new AWS Direct Connect connection


Open the AWS Direct Connect console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/directconnect/v2/home.


On the AWS Direct Connect screen, under Get started, choose Create a connection.


On the Create Connection pane, under Connection settings, do the following:


For Name, enter a name for the connection.


For Location, select the appropriate AWS Direct Connect location.


If applicable, for Sub Location, choose the floor closest to you or your network provider. This option is only available if the location has meet-me rooms (MMRs) in multiple floors of the building.


For Port Speed, choose the connection bandwidth.


For On-premises, select Connect through an AWS Direct Connect partner when you use this connection to connect to your data center.



(Optional) Add or remove a tag.
[Add a tag] Choose Add tag and do the following:
   For Key, enter the key name.
   For Value, enter the key value.
[Remove a tag] Next to the tag, choose Remove tag.


Choose Create Connection.


**To create a connection using the command line or API
 create-connection (AWS CLI)
 CreateConnection (AWS Direct Connect API)
Downloading the LOA-CFA
After AWS has processed your connection request, you can download the LOA-CFA. 
If you need to change the LOA-CFA after it has been created (for example, you need to change the ports), contact AWS Support.
To download the LOA-CFA


Open the AWS Direct Connect console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/directconnect/v2/home.


In the navigation pane, choose Connections.


Select the connection and choose View details.


Choose Download LOA-CFA. 
Note
If the link is not enabled, the LOA-CFA is not yet available for you to download. Check your email for a request for information. If it's still unavailable, or you haven't received an email after 72 hours, contact AWS Support.


Send the LOA-CFA to your network provider or colocation provider so that they can order a cross connect for you. The contact process can vary for each colocation provider. For more information, see Requesting cross connects at AWS Direct Connect locations.


The LOA-CFA expires after 90 days. If your connection is not up after 90 days, we send you an email alerting you that the LOA-CFA has expired. To refresh the LOA-CFA with a new issue date, download it again from the AWS Direct Connect console. If you do not take any action, we delete the connection.
Note
Port-hour billing starts 90 days after you created the connection, or after the connection between your router and the AWS Direct Connect endpoint is established, whichever comes first. For more information, see AWS Direct Connect Pricing. If you no longer want the connection after you have reissued the LOA-CFA, you must delete the connection yourself. For more information, see Deleting connections.
To download the LOA-CFA using the command line or API
 describe-loa (AWS CLI)
 DescribeLoa (AWS Direct Connect API)