Tagging Your Amazon S3 Glacier Vaults
You can assign your own metadata to Amazon S3 Glacier (S3 Glacier) vaults in the form of tags. A tag is a key-value pair that you define for a vault. For basic information about tagging, including restrictions on tags, see Tagging Amazon S3 Glacier Resources.
The following topics describe how you can add, list, and remove tags for vaults.
Topics
 Tagging Vaults Using the Amazon S3 Glacier Console
 Tagging Vaults Using the Amazon S3 Glacier API
 Related Sections
Tagging Vaults Using the Amazon S3 Glacier Console
You can add, list, and remove tags using the S3 Glacier console as described in the following procedures.
To view the tags for a vault


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the S3 Glacier console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/glacier.


From the AWS Region selector, choose am AWS Region.


On the Amazon S3 Glacier Vaults page, choose a vault.


Choose the Tags tab. The tags for that vault will appear.


To add a tag to a vault


Open the S3 Glacier console, and then choose a Region from the AWS Region selector.


On the Amazon S3 Glacier Vaults page, choose a vault.


Choose the Tags tab.


Specify the tag key in the Key field, optionally specify a tag value in the Value field, and then choose Save.


If the Save button is not enabled, either the tag key or the tag value that you specified does not meet the tag restrictions. For more about tag restrictions, see Tag Restrictions.
To remove a tag from a vault


Open the S3 Glacier console, and then choose a Region from the AWS Region selector.


On the Amazon S3 Glacier Vaults page, choose a vault.


Choose the Tags tab, and then choose the x at the end of the row that describes the tag you want to delete.


Choose Delete.


Tagging Vaults Using the Amazon S3 Glacier API
You can add, list, and remove tags using the S3 Glacier API. For examples, see the following documentation:
Add Tags To Vault (POST tags add) 
Adds or updates tags for the specified vault.
List Tags For Vault (GET tags) 
Lists the tags for the specified vault.
Remove Tags From Vault (POST tags remove) 
Removes tags from the specified vault.
Related Sections

Tagging Amazon S3 Glacier Resources
