Setting Up Amazon Macie
When you sign up for AWS, your AWS account is automatically signed up for all services in AWS, including Amazon Macie. Before you can get started with Macie, you must enable Macie.
Tasks
 If you don't have an AWS account, open https://portal.aws.amazon.com/billing/signup and follow the directions.
 Enable Macie
 Integrate Amazon S3 with Macie
Enable Macie
The AWS account that you use to enable Macie is automatically designated as your master account. For more information, see Concepts and Terminology.
After you enable Macie, it immediately begins pulling and analyzing independent streams of data from AWS CloudTrail to generate alerts. Because Macie consumes this data only to determine if there are potential security issues, Macie doesn't manage CloudTrail for you or make its events and logs available to you. If you have enabled CloudTrail independent of Macie, you continue to have the option to configure its settings through the CloudTrail console or APIs. For more information, see the AWS CloudTrail User Guide.
Prerequisites
 The IAM identity (user, role, group) that you use to enable Macie must have the required permissions. To grant the required permissions, attach the AmazonMacieFullAccess managed policy to this identity. For more information, see Predefined AWS Managed Policies for Macie.
To enable Amazon Macie


Open the Macie console using one of the following links:
    US East (N. Virginia): https://us-east-1.redirection.macie.aws.amazon.com/
    US West (Oregon): https://us-west-2.redirection.macie.aws.amazon.com/


Choose Get started.


(Optional) When you enable Macie, Macie creates a service-linked role. To view the IAM policy for this role, choose View service role permissions. For more information, see Service-Linked Roles for Amazon Macie.


Choose Enable Macie.


You can disable Macie at any time to stop it from processing and analyzing CloudTrail events. For more information, see Disabling Amazon Macie and Deleting Collected Metadata.
Integrate Amazon S3 with Macie
To classify and protect your data, Macie analyzes and processes information from CloudTrail and Amazon S3. Enabling CloudTrail in your account is required to enable Macie. Integrating S3 with Macie is not required. However, we strongly recommend that you integrate with Amazon S3 as part of setting up Macie. For more information about how Macie classifies your data, see Classifying Data with Amazon Macie.
When you integrate with Amazon S3, Macie creates a trail and a bucket to store the logs about the Amazon S3 object-level API activity (data events) that it will analyze, along with other CloudTrail logs that it processes.
Prerequisites
 The IAM identity (user, role, group) that you use to integrate must have the required permissions. To grant the required permissions, attach the AmazonMacieFullAccess managed policy to this identity. For more information, see Predefined AWS Managed Policies for Macie.
To integrate with Amazon S3


Log in to AWS with the credentials of the account that is serving as your Macie master account.


Open the Macie console and choose Integrations from the navigation pane.


Choose S3 Resources and choose Select next to the account (master or member).


On the Integrate S3 resources with Macie page, choose Add. Select up to 250 Amazon S3 resources from the current AWS Region and then choose Add.


For Classification of existing objects, keep the default setting, Full. The one-time classification method is applied only once to all of the existing objects in the selected S3 buckets.


Macie displays the following information for each selected bucket:
    Total objects – Total number of objects.
    Processed estimate – Total size of the data that Macie will classify.
    Cost estimate – Cost estimate for classifying all of the objects.
Macie also displays the following totals across all selected buckets:
    Total size – Total size of the data.
    Total number of objects – Total number of objects.
    Processed estimate – Total size of the data that Macie will classify.
    Total cost estimate – Cost estimate for classifying all of the objects.
The cost estimate for each bucket is based on its processed estimate value. The total cost estimates are provided only for S3 buckets, not for prefixes. For more information, see Amazon Macie Pricing.
The one-time classification cost estimates are only calculated per S3 bucket, not bucket prefixes. If you select a bucket prefix, the cost estimate for the entire S3 bucket is included in the total cost estimate. If you select multiple prefixes of the same S3 bucket, the cost estimate for the entire S3 bucket is included only once in the total cost estimate.


When you have finished your selections, choose Review.


When you have finished reviewing your selections, choose Start classification.

