Import the Installer VM Certificate
You can extract the self-signed certificate generated at bootstrap time on the installer VM from vCenter. You then convert the certificate to binary format that you can import as a Trusted CA on the browser. Doing so makes the connection in between the browser and the RDS Installer secure.
Note
The process described in this section should work for most operating systems and browsers. However, each operating system and browser has its own way of storing and managing certificates. We described the sequence of steps for Windows 10, Chrome Version 77.0.3865.90, and Microsoft Edge 44.18362.387.0. We also tested this process for Mac OS and Chrome.
Performing this process avoids the Connection Not Secure alert in the browser when accessing the Installer because the application uses self-signed certificates. 
The process requires the Managed Object Browser (MOB) to find the certificate of the Installer. Make sure that you have the MOB accessible. The MOB provides a way to explore the vSphere object model. However, it's not enabled in production systems on vSphere 6.5 and higher. To enable it, see the  VMware documentation.
To import the Installer VM certificate


Power on the Installer VM for Amazon RDS on VMware.


Get the VM Object Reference certificate by navigating the MOB.


Go to https://vCenter FQDN/mob.


Choose Content.


Choose SearchIndex.


Choose FindAllByIp.
The Method Invocation Result page looks similar to the following.

Note the return value, which is the VM object reference. On the preceding page, the VM Object reference value is vm-41.


Get the VM Installer certificate using the VM object reference.


Go to this location: http://vCenter-FQDN/mob/?moid=VM_object_reference&doPath=config.extraConfig["guestinfo.RDSInstaller.certificate"]
Replace VM_object_reference with the value that you retrieved in the previous step. In the sample page, it was vm-41.
A page similar to the following opens.



Copy and paste this certificate to create a text file called RDSinstCert.cer.


Use a tool to convert the captured certificate to the CRT binary format. For example, you can use openssl, which is available on Windows, Mac, and Linux.


The following example shows the conversion with openssl.
openssl x509 -outform der -in RDSinstCert.cer -out RDSinstCert.crt

Import the certificate with your browser.

The following steps import the certificate with Chrome on Windows. On Windows, this method also works with Edge and Firefox, but Firefox must be configured to use the Windows certificate store instead of the Mozilla store. On Mac, you must use the Mac system keychain.


Go to Manage Certificates Chrome settings, and import the certificate on the Trusted Root Certification Authorities folder, as shown following.



On the Security Warning page, accept the installation of the certificate.
After the certificate is installed, it is listed in the Trusted Root Certification Authorities folder, as shown following.



Restart the browser and launch the Installer by following the instructions in step 8 in Onboard Your vSphere Cluster.


The security alert shouldn't appear.