Setting Up Amazon RDS on VMware
If you've already signed up for Amazon Web Services (AWS), you can start using Amazon RDS on VMware immediately by completing the tasks in Getting Started with Amazon RDS on VMware.
If you haven't signed up for AWS yet, complete the following tasks to get set up to use Amazon RDS on VMware. 
Topics
 Sign Up for AWS
 Create and Configure an IAM User
 SSL/TLS Certificate Requirements
Sign Up for AWS
If you have an AWS account already, skip to the next section, Create and Configure an IAM User. 
If you don't have an AWS account, you can use the following procedure to create one.
To create a new AWS account


Open https://portal.aws.amazon.com/billing/signup.


Follow the online instructions.


Part of the sign-up procedure involves receiving a phone call and entering a verification code on the phone keypad.
Create and Configure an IAM User
After you create an AWS account and successfully connect to the AWS Management Console, you can create an AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) user. Instead of signing in with your AWS root account, we recommend that you use an IAM administrative user with Amazon RDS. 
One way to do this is to create a new IAM user and grant it administrator permissions. Or you can add an existing IAM user to an IAM group with Amazon RDS administrative permissions. You can then access AWS from a special URL using the credentials for the IAM user. 
Topics
 Create an IAM User
 Create Access Keys
Create an IAM User
If you signed up for AWS but haven't created an IAM user for yourself, you can create one using the IAM console.
To create an administrator user for yourself and add the user to an administrators group (console)


Sign in to the IAM console as the account owner by choosing Root user and entering your AWS account email address. On the next page, enter your password.
Note
We strongly recommend that you adhere to the best practice of using the Administrator IAM user below and securely lock away the root user credentials. Sign in as the root user only to perform a few account and service management tasks.


In the navigation pane, choose Users and then choose Add user.


For User name, enter Administrator.


Select the check box next to AWS Management Console access. Then select Custom password, and then enter your new password in the text box.


(Optional) By default, AWS requires the new user to create a new password when first signing in. You can clear the check box next to User must create a new password at next sign-in to allow the new user to reset their password after they sign in.


Choose Next: Permissions.


Under Set permissions, choose Add user to group.


Choose Create group.


In the Create group dialog box, for Group name enter Administrators.


Choose Filter policies, and then select AWS managed -job function to filter the table contents.


In the policy list, select the check box for AdministratorAccess. Then choose Create group.
Note
You must activate IAM user and role access to Billing before you can use the AdministratorAccess permissions to access the AWS Billing and Cost Management console. To do this, follow the instructions in step 1 of the tutorial about delegating access to the billing console.


Back in the list of groups, select the check box for your new group. Choose Refresh if necessary to see the group in the list.


Choose Next: Tags.


(Optional) Add metadata to the user by attaching tags as key-value pairs. For more information about using tags in IAM, see Tagging IAM Entities in the IAM User Guide.


Choose Next: Review to see the list of group memberships to be added to the new user. When you are ready to proceed, choose Create user.


You can use this same process to create more groups and users and to give your users access to your AWS account resources. To learn about using policies that restrict user permissions to specific AWS resources, see Access Management and Example Policies.
To sign in as the new IAM user, first sign out of the AWS Management Console. Then use the following URL, where your_aws_account_id is your AWS account number without the hyphens. For example, if your AWS account number is 1234-5678-9012, your AWS account ID is 123456789012.
https://your_aws_account_id.signin.aws.amazon.com/console/
Enter the IAM user name and password that you just created. When you're signed in, the navigation bar displays "your_user_name @ your_aws_account_id".
If you don't want the URL for your sign-in page to contain your AWS account ID, you can create an account alias. From the IAM dashboard, choose Customize and enter an alias, such as your company name. To sign in after you create an account alias, use the following URL.
https://your_account_alias.signin.aws.amazon.com/console/
To verify the sign-in link for IAM users for your account, open the IAM console and check under AWS Account Alias on the dashboard.
Create Access Keys
You can also create access keys for your AWS account. These access keys can be used to access AWS through the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI) or through the Amazon RDS API. For more information, see Managing Access Keys for Your AWS Account, Installing the AWS Command Line Interface, and the Amazon RDS API Reference.
SSL/TLS Certificate Requirements
Amazon RDS on VMware uses the latest AWS certificates (2019) for encryption. For information about downloading these certificates, see Using SSL/TLS to Encrypt a Connection to a DB Instance in the RDS User Guide.