Delete a pipeline in CodePipeline
You can always edit a pipeline to change its functionality, but you might decide you want to delete it instead. You can use the AWS CodePipeline console or the delete-pipeline command in the AWS CLI to delete a pipeline.
Topics
 Delete a pipeline (console)
 Delete a pipeline (CLI)
Delete a pipeline (console)
To delete a pipeline

Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the CodePipeline console at http://console.aws.amazon.com/codesuite/codepipeline/home.

The names and status of all pipelines associated with your AWS account are displayed. 


In Name, choose the name of the pipeline you want to delete. 


On the pipeline details page, choose Edit. 


On the Edit page, choose Delete.


Type delete in the field to confirm, and then choose Delete.
Important
This action cannot be undone.


Delete a pipeline (CLI)
To use the AWS CLI to manually delete a pipeline, use the delete-pipeline command. 
Important
Deleting a pipeline is irreversible. There is no confirmation dialog box. After the command is run, the pipeline is deleted, but none of the resources used in the pipeline are deleted. This makes it easier to create a new pipeline that uses those resources to automate the release of your software.
To delete a pipeline

Open a terminal (Linux, macOS, or Unix) or command prompt (Windows) and use the AWS CLI to run the delete-pipeline command, specifying the name of the pipeline you want to delete. For example, to delete a pipeline named MyFirstPipeline: 

aws codepipeline delete-pipeline --name MyFirstPipeline
This command returns nothing.

Delete any resources you no longer need.
Note
Deleting a pipeline does not delete the resources used in the pipeline, such as the CodeDeploy or Elastic Beanstalk application you used to deploy your code, or, if you created your pipeline from the CodePipeline console, the Amazon S3 bucket CodePipeline created to store the artifacts of your pipelines. Make sure that you delete resources that are no longer required so that you are not charged for them in the future. For example, when you use the console to create a pipeline for the first time, CodePipeline creates one Amazon S3 bucket to store all artifacts for all of your pipelines. If you have deleted all of your pipelines, follow the steps in Deleting a Bucket. 
