Step 6: Clean Up Resources
After you have finished this exercise, you should follow these steps to clean up your resources and protect your AWS account.
To clean up resources


On the Amazon EC2 console, terminate your instance. For more information, see Terminate Your Instance in the Amazon EC2 User Guide for Windows Instances.


On the Amazon FSx console, delete your file system. All automatic backups are deleted automatically. However, you still need to delete the manually created backups. The following steps outline this process:


Open the Amazon FSx console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/fsx/.


From the console dashboard, choose the name of the file system you created for this exercise.


For Actions, choose Delete file system.


In the Delete file system dialog box that opens, decide whether you want to create a final backup. If you do, provide a name for the final backup. Any automatically created backups are also deleted.
Important
New file systems can be created from backups. We recommend that you create a final backup as a best practice. If you find you don't need it after a certain period of time, you can delete this and other manually created backups.


Enter the ID of the file system that you want to delete in the File system ID box.


Choose Delete file system.


The file system is now being deleted, and its status in the dashboard changes to DELETING. When the file system has been deleted, it no longer appears in the dashboard.


Now you can delete any manually created backups for your file system. From the left-side navigation, choose Backups.


From the dashboard, choose any backups that have the same File system ID as the file system that you deleted, and choose Delete backup.


The Delete backups dialog box opens. Leave the check box checked for the ID of the backup you selected, and choose Delete backups.


Your Amazon FSx file system and related automatic backups are now deleted.

If you created an AWS Directory Service directory for this exercise in Walkthrough 1: Prerequisites for Getting Started, you can delete it now. For more information, see Delete Your Directory in the AWS Directory Service Administration Guide.
