Setting Up Amazon RDS to Host Tools and Third-Party Software for Oracle
You can use Amazon RDS to host an Oracle DB instance that supports software and components such as the following: 
 Siebel Customer Relationship Management (CRM)
 Oracle Fusion Middleware Metadata — installed by the Repository Creation Utility (RCU)
The following procedures help you create an Oracle DB instance on Amazon RDS that you can use to host additional software and components for Oracle. 
Creating a VPC for Use with an Oracle Database
In the following procedure, you create a virtual private cloud (VPC) based on the Amazon VPC service, a private subnet, and a security group. Your Amazon RDS DB instance needs to be available only to your middle-tier components, and not to the public internet. Thus, your Amazon RDS DB instance is hosted in a private subnet, providing greater security. 
To create a VPC based on Amazon VPC


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon VPC console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/.


In the upper-right corner of the AWS Management Console, choose the AWS Region for your VPC. This example uses the US West (Oregon) region. 


In the upper-left corner, choose VPC Dashboard, and then choose Start VPC Wizard. 


On the page Step 1: Select a VPC Configuration, choose VPC with Public and Private Subnets, and then choose Select. 


On the page Step 2: VPC with Public and Private Subnets, shown following, set the following values.  



[See the AWS documentation website for more details]


Choose Create VPC. 

An Amazon RDS DB instance in a VPC requires at least two private subnets or at least two public subnets, to support Multi-AZ deployment. For more information about working with multiple Availability Zones, see  Regions, Availability Zones, and Local Zones . Because your database is private, add a second private subnet to your VPC. 
To create an additional subnet


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon VPC console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/.


In the upper-right corner of the AWS Management Console, confirm that you are in the correct AWS Region for your VPC. 


In the upper-left corner, choose VPC Dashboard, choose Subnets, and then choose Create Subnet. 


On the Create Subnet page, set the following values.   



[See the AWS documentation website for more details]

Choose Yes, Create.

Both private subnets must use the same route table. In the following procedure, you check to make sure the route tables match, and if not you edit one of them. 
To ensure the subnets use the same route table.


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon VPC console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/.


In the upper-right corner of the AWS Management Console, confirm that you are in the correct AWS Region for your VPC. 


In the upper-left corner, choose VPC Dashboard, choose Subnets, and then choose your first private subnet, for example subnet-private-1. 


At the bottom of the console, choose the Route Table tab, shown following. 



Make a note of the route table, for example rtb-0d9fc668. 


In the list of subnets, choose the second private subnet, for example subnet-private-2. 


At the bottom of the console, choose the Route Table tab. 


If the route table for the second subnet is not the same as the route table for the first subnet, edit it to match: 


Choose Edit.


For Change to, choose the route table that matches your first subnet.


Choose Save.


A security group acts as a virtual firewall for your DB instance to control inbound and outbound traffic. In the following procedure, you create a security group for your DB instance. For more information about security groups, see Security Groups for Your VPC. 
To create a VPC security group for a Private Amazon RDS DB Instance


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon VPC console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/.


In the upper-right corner of the AWS Management Console, confirm that you are in the correct AWS Region for your VPC. 


In the upper-left corner, choose VPC Dashboard, choose Security Groups, and then choose Create Security Group. 


On the page Create Security Group, set the following values.  



[See the AWS documentation website for more details]

Choose Yes, Create.

In the following procedure, you add rules to your security group to control inbound traffic to your DB instance. For more information about inbound rules, see Security Group Rules. 
To add inbound rules to the security group


Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon VPC console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/.


In the upper-right corner of the AWS Management Console, confirm that you are in the correct AWS Region for your VPC. 


In the upper-left corner, choose VPC Dashboard, choose Security Groups, and then choose your security group, for example sgdb-1. 


At the bottom of the console, choose the Inbound Rules tab, and then choose Edit. 


Set these values, as shown following.  



[See the AWS documentation website for more details]


Choose Save.

Creating an Oracle DB Instance
You can use Amazon RDS to host an Oracle DB instance. When you create the new DB instance, specify the VPC and security group you created previously using the instructions in Creating a VPC for Use with an Oracle Database. Also, choose No for Publicly accessible. 
For information about creating a DB instance, see Creating an Amazon RDS DB Instance.
Additional Amazon RDS Interfaces
In the preceding procedures, we use the AWS Management Console to perform tasks. Amazon Web Services also provides the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI), and an application programming interface (API). You can use the AWS CLI or the API to automate many of the tasks for managing Amazon RDS, including tasks to manage an Oracle DB instance with Amazon RDS. 
For more information, see AWS Command Line Interface Reference for Amazon RDS and Amazon RDS API Reference. 
Related Topics

Setting Up for Amazon RDS
Using the Oracle Repository Creation Utility on Amazon RDS for Oracle
Installing a Siebel Database on Oracle on Amazon RDS
Scenarios for Accessing a DB Instance in a VPC
Connecting to a DB Instance Running the Oracle Database Engine
